Skip to content
Know us
The Center Orlando.
The mission of LGBT+ Center Orlando is to promote and empower the LGBT community and its allies through advocacy, education, information, and support.
Our Programs & Services
Know us
The Center Orlando.
The mission of LGBT+ Center Orlando is to promote and empower the LGBT community and its allies through advocacy, education, information, and support.
Our Programs & Services
Our Locations
The Center Orlando – Mills Ave
Testing Center
942 N Mills Ave, Orlando,
FL 32803
Monday: 9:00 a.m. &#8211; 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday: 9:00 a.m &#8211; 5:00 p.m
Wednesday:
Thursday: 9:00 a.m &#8211; 5:00 p.m
Friday: 9:00 a.m &#8211; 8:00 p.m
Saturday: CLOSED
Sunday: 10:00 a.m &#8211; 2:00 p.m
go to map
There is an ADA-accessible entrance located at the rear of the building.
The Center Orlando – Hillcrest St.
Pride Pantry, Groups, & Meetings
1200 Hillcrest Street Suite 102,
Orlando,
FL 32803
Pride Pantry – Fridays
Evenings &#038; Weekends
open for scheduled groups and meetings only
go to map
Our Programs
You can access our programs to receive support.
Senior
OURS
Health Services
Transgender
Volunteer
Singhaus Scholarship
Services
Learn how you can access our services.
Groups
Legal & Immigration
Cyber Center
Resource Guide
Pride Pantry
The Center Scholarship
About us
DEIB Statement
The Center Orlando believes in creating a culture of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging in a space that reflects our community and the people within it.
See more
About us
DEIB Statement
The Center Orlando believes in creating a culture of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging in a space that reflects our community and the people within it.
See more
We are a non-profit organization that has been helping and accompanying the LGBT+ community of Central Florida since 1978.
Donations
Click on Ways to Give and discover ways you can donate to support the center and the LGBT+ community.
Ways to Give
Plan an activity at The Center Orlando
We have different spaces for a variety of occasions
Each area has equipment and furniture. Depending on your needs, you can book regularly or occasionally.
More information
Events
Learn about our events and how to participate.
see more
A SPECIAL THANK YOU TO OUR GRANTORS!
Thank you for your unconditional support and for trusting us for all these years.
LGBT+ Center Orlando, Inc. is a 501C registered charity. Our FEIN is 59-1884445.
In the State of Florida, our registration number for solicitations is CH11373. A copy of the official registration and financial information may be obtained from the Division of Consumer Services by calling 1-800-435-7352 within the State of Florida. Registration does not imply endorsement, approval, or recommendation by the State of Florida.
LGBT+ Center Orlando, Inc. has an endowment fund held at Central Florida Foundation.
For a copy of any previous years 990 or audited financial documents, please visit our public Guidestar portrait here: Central Florida Foundation (nonprofit-search.org).
Mental Health Counseling
Outreach
Testing
Harm Reduction
General Information
I hereby enter into this contract with LGBT+ Center Orlando, Inc. for the use of and have fully read and understood all rules and regulations governing the use of the facility.
I understand that the rental fee is per hour and agree to pay all fees prior to space usage.
I understand that LGBT+ Center Orlando, Inc. does not offer refunds.
I understand that I will be held financially responsible for any damage made to the facilities, appliances, furniture, or equipment.
I understand that I will be held responsible for the behavior of the group organization’s membership and its guests.
I understand that LGBT+ Center Orlando, Inc. may cancel the use of the facility if I or any persons in my group/organization do not comply with the user agreement and the guidelines.
Newsletter
Donate
TESTING INFO
Hotlines
Hotlines
Newsletter