I Need a Replacement (Duplicate) License/Identification Card
If you have not already done so, you may be required to provide proof of legal presence and Maine residency in order to obtain a duplicate license.
There is a $5 fee for a duplicate non-compliant license/identification card.
There is a $30 fee for a duplicate REAL ID license/identification card.
Please note that if your license is suspended, you will not be able to get a duplicate it until the suspension requirements are completed.
There are three ways you can obtain a duplicate driver's license or identification card.
You may be eligible to replace your credential through our online renewal/replacement service . This is available to many Maine licensed drivers with an active driver's license or a Maine ID card. This service is not available for commercial driver license holders. You will need your Social Security number, a valid credit card (Visa or MasterCard) and a printer. If your address has changed, please update it with BMV prior to ordering a duplicate. You can update your address by calling 207-624-9000 ext. 52114, emailing branch.BMV@maine.gov, or using the Contact Us form at the top of this page.
You may visit a branch office or mobile unit location . Please bring two documents to prove identification . One of these items must indicate your date of birth and the other must bear your written signature. You will be asked to complete a form (PDF) stating that the license/identification card is not in your possession.
You can mail a written request. The request must include: your name,
date of birth,
current address,
a brief statement certifying the original license/identification card is not in your possession,
what happened to your original, and
$5 fee for a non-compliant license/id card or $30 for a REAL ID license/id card
The image and signature on file will be verified and your duplicate license/identification card will be processed and mailed to you.
Any written requests should be mailed to:
Bureau of Motor Vehicles
License Information Unit
29 State House Station
Augusta, ME 04333-0029
It is not necessary, but if you choose to obtain the duplicate license/identification card paperwork prior to going to a branch office or mobile unit, you may make the same written request as instructed above and the paperwork will be mailed to you. This process also applies if you are out of state or out of the country and need to obtain a duplicate.
Call 207-624-9000, ext. 52114 if you have questions about a duplicate license.