Skip to main content
Identification Cards
ID Eligibility
You are eligible to receive an identification (ID) card if all of the following are true:
You do not have a valid South Carolina (SC) driver's license or beginner's permit.
You live in the state.
You are at least five.
You can provide documents that prove your identity to get an ID.
You do not have driving privileges if you have an ID.
When you are issued an SC ID card, any driver's licenses and ID cards previously issued by another jurisdiction (state or province) will be cancelled. If you have a valid driver's license or ID from another jurisdiction, you must surrender it in order to receive an SC ID card or license. If a license or ID card is later issued to you by another state, your SC card will be cancelled.
Your ID card can be a REAL ID. Please visit the Driver's License page to see what documents are required.
Applying for an ID
If you're eligible for an ID card, you may apply for it by doing the following:
Complete the Application for an ID (SCDMV Form 447-NC).
Provide your social security number on the application. Your legal name and date of birth associated with your social security number must match what's on file with the Social Security Administration.
Show all required documents proving your identity such as your original birth certificate, proof of your current, physical South Carolina address dated within nine months of its issue (two proofs of address for a REAL ID card), and proof of all legal name changes. Find a complete list of accepted documents on the United States Citizens' Checklist (SCDMV Form MV-93) and International Customers' Checklist (SCDMV Form MV-94)
The SCDMV uses a centralized location to print ID cards. While you visit SCDMV branches in person to apply, and provide documentation, you will receive a temporary identification certificate on-site, instead of receiving a card at the branch office. You will receive the ID card in the mail in seven to 15 business days.
Don’t wait until the last minute to get your new card — allow time for mail delivery.
Temporary certificates are valid for up to 30 days and can be used for voting and identification where accepted. Expiring cards will be returned with a hole punch and can still be used as photo ID, where accepted, until the new card arrives.
A QR code on the temporary certificate allows you to track the status of the new card through production and mailing. Please visit an SCDMV branch office if you do not receive a card in 30 days.
Find an SCDMV Branch
Renew Your Identification Card Online
If you choose to renew your ID card online, you must provide identifying information to login below. At the end of the process, you must pay for the new ID card with a valid credit card.
If you're a US Citizen interested in renewing your ID card online for an eight-year ID card, you must meet all of the following requirements:
Your ID card has to be within 12 months of the expiration date to renew.
You can pay with a valid credit or debit card, if applicable. ID card renewals are free for people who are 17-years-old or older and $15 for people who are five to 16-years-old.
You are a US Citizen. If you're not a US Citizen, you cannot renew your ID card online.
Your ID card has not expired for more than nine months.
Your social security number, legal name, and date of birth must match what's on file with the Social Security Administration.
You are not a convicted violent offender.
You did not renew your ID card by mail or online the last time you renewed it.
If you are eligible for renewing your ID card online, you will receive an eight-year ID card in the mail. The SCDMV will use your current photograph and signature and mail your new card to the address on file. It may take up to 15 business days to receive your renewed ID card in the mail. There is a service fee associated with an online ID renewal if you are five to 16-years-old.
RENEW ID ONLINE
Renewing an Expired ID
An ID card expires eight years after it is issued. If you're renewing your ID card less than nine months from its expiration date, the renewal process is the same as if it wasn't expired.
If you're renewing your ID that's expired by nine months or more, you must visit an SCDMV branch with all of the following documentation:
Show proof of identity if the SCDMV doesn't have it on file
Present proof of your current, physical South Carolina address, dated within nine months of its issue. You will have to present two proofs of address if applying for a REAL ID card.
The United States Citizens' Checklist (SCDMV Form MV-93) and the Lawfully Present non-US Citizens' Checklist (SCDMV Form MV-94) have a complete list of accepted documents that can prove your identity.
ID Card Costs
Original ID cards and renewals are free for people who are 17-years-old or older. ID cards are $15 for people who are five to 16.
A replacement ID card is $10 for all ages. The only time the replacement fee is not charged is if someone who is 17-years-old or older is within one year of his or her ID card expiration date. If this is the case, your replacement ID is free, and should be processed as a renewal.