JDF 386 – Petition for Name Change (felon) R: April 24, 2024 Page 1 of 3
JDF 386 Petition for Name Change
for a Prior Felon
1. Court
District County Juvenile
Colorado County:
Court Address:
This box is for court use only.
2. Parties to the Case
Petitioner:
3. Filed by
Name:
Mailing Address:
City: St: Zip:
Phone:
Email:
4. Case Details
Number:
Division:
Courtroom:
5. Background
I submit this request under Colorado Revised Statute (C.R.S.) section (§) 13-15-101(3).
6. Petitioner’s Information
a) Current Name
First:
Middle:
Last:
b) Contact Information
Mailing Address: (with city/state/zip)
I live in: (county name) County, Colorado.
c) Birth Date
My date of birth is: (MM/DD/YYYY)
d) New Legal Name
First:
Middle:
Last:
JDF 386 – Petition for Name Change (felon) R: April 24, 2024 Page 2 of 3
7. Affirmed Facts
a) I have been convicted or adjudicated of a felony (or what would be a felony) in Colorado
or any other state.
b) The proposed name change would be proper and not detrimental to the interest of any
other person.
c) The proposed name change is not for fraud, to avoid the consequences of a criminal
conviction, or to facilitate a criminal activity.
8. Reason for Change
a) I need a legal name change to get a Colorado driver’s license or identification card.
b) Is this change to a name under which you were convicted or adjudicated?
Yes. No. *
* If not, why are you requesting a name change?
To conform my name with my gender identity. C.R.S. § 13-15-101(3)(b)(II).
Other:
9. Publication Waiver
Before final approval, the Court will issue a Publication Order. You must take that to a newspaper
in your county and have it published once a week for three weeks.
If checked, I’m requesting that the publication requirement be waived because:
This name change is to conform with my gender identity. C.R.S. § 13-15-104(a).
Other:
JDF 386 – Petition for Name Change (felon) R: April 24, 2024 Page 3 of 3
10. Agency Notification
I’ve sent written notification to the following agencies about my requested name change:
a) The prosecuting attorney’s office where I received a conviction or adjudication.
b) The FBI and CBI to add an alias to my criminal history record.
c) My supervising agency if I am currently:
1) In the Department of Corrections,
2) On Probation or in Community Corrections, or
3) Incarcerated in a county jail.
11. Attachments
To this Petition, I’ve attached:
a) My FBI Record Check. (Label as Attachment 1.)
b) My CBI Record Check. (Label as Attachment 2.)
c) A copy of any written notice given to my supervising agency. (Label as Attachment 3.)
Note on Record Checks
• It can’t be over 90 days old (when you file the Petition).
• It must be a certified fingerprint-based criminal history check.
12. Notarized Signature
I swear/affirm under oath that I have read the foregoing and that the statements set forth therein
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
Print Your Name
Your Signature
Subscribed and affirmed, or sworn to before me in the County of ,
State of , this day of , 20 .
My commission expires:
Notary Public/Deputy Clerk: