English
廣東話
Chuukese
ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi
Ilokano
日本語
한국어
国语
Marshallese
Samoan
Español
Tagalog
Tongan
ภาษาไทย
Tiếng Việt
Visayan
x To request language or accessibility for HDOH programs or public meetings, please contact the HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, at (808) 586-4400 or email: [email&#160;protected] . Please allow sufficient time for HDOH to meet accommodation requests.
如欲針對在 HDOH 計劃或公開會議中提出語言或無障礙便利方面的要求，請聯絡 HDOH 非歧視協調員，致電 (808) 586-4400 或發送電子郵件至： [email&#160;protected] 。請為 HDOH 留出足夠的時間來滿足您的便利要求。
Ren eom kopwe tungor fosun fonu ika atotongeni ren HDOH programs kena ika mwichen aramas meinisin kena, kose mochen kori ewe HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, non (808)586-4400 ika email: [email&#160;protected] . Kose mochen mut ngenitamenon fansoun ren an HDOH epwe tori anenian tungor kena.
No ke noi ‘ana i kōkua ma ka māhele ‘ōlelo a i ‘ole ka lawelawe kīnānā ‘ana no nā papa hana a ka HDOH a i ‘ole nā hālāwai no ka lehulehu, e kūkā me ka Luna Ho‘okae o ka HDOH ma ka helu (808) 586-4400 a i ‘ole e leka uila i ka [email&#160;protected] . E ‘ae aku i ka manawa lō‘ihi kūpono e ho‘oponopono ai ka HDOH i kāu noi.
Tapno agkiddaw ti lenggwahe wenno pannaka-access ti programa ti HDOH wenno pampubliko nga miting, pangaasim ta kontakem ti non-discrimination nga coordinator ti HDOH sadjay (808) 586-4400 wenno email: [email&#160;protected] . Pangaasim ta ipaayam tiHDOH ti undas a tiempo a mangasikaso dagiti kiddaw ti pagdagusan.
HDOHのプログラムまたはオープンな会議における言語やアクセシビリティのリクエストは、HDOH無差別コーディネーター（電話：(808) 586-4400、またはメール： [email&#160;protected] ）までご連絡ください。HDOHがご要望にお応えできるよう、十分な時間をお取りください。
HDOH 프로그램 또는 공개 회의에 대한 언어 지원 또는 장애인 편의를 요청하시려면 HDOH 차별금지 조정관에게 (808) 5864400으로 전화하거나 이메일( [email&#160;protected] )로 연락해 주십시오. HDOH에서 요청된 편의 사항을 마련할 수 있도록 충분한 시간을 주시기 바랍니다.
如需申请针对 HDOH 计划或公开会议的语言或无障碍服务，请致电 (808) 586-4400，或发送电子邮件至： : [email&#160;protected] 联系 HDOH 非歧视协调员。请留出足够的时间，以便 HDOH 有充足的时间来满足便利安排请求。
Ñan kajjitõk am maron bõk melele ikijen kajin ak lale melele ko ñan burokraam ko an HDOH ak kwelok ko aoleb armij remaron etal ñane, jouj im kebaak Rikõlaajrak eo ej lale Ejellok Kalijeklok an HDOH, ilo (808) 586-4400 ñe ejab email: [email&#160;protected] . Jouj im lelok ien ñan an HDOH kõtõbrak kajjitõk ko ikijen mennin jibañ.
Ina ia talosagaina le gagana po o le mauaina o polokalama o le HDOH po o fonotaga lautele, faamolemole faafesootai le Taitai Faamaopoopo o le HDOH e Le FaailogaLanu, i le (808) 586-4400 po o le imeli: [email&#160;protected] . Faamolemole ia faʻaavanoa se taimi talafeagai mo le HDOH e faataunuʻu ai ia talosaga.
Si desea solicitar servicios lingüísticos o accesibilidad para los programas o reuniones públicas del HDOH, contáctese con la coordinadora de actos de no discriminación del HDOH al (808) 586-4400 o por correo electrónico: [email&#160;protected] . Le pedimos que nosconceda tiempo suficiente para que el HDOH pueda satisfacer sus solicitudes de ayuda.
Para humiling ng wika o pagiging magagamit para sa mga programa o mga pampublikong pagpupulong ng HDOH, pakikontak ang Koordinador ng Walang Diskriminasyon ng HDOH, sa (808)586-4400 o mag-email sa: [email&#160;protected] . Mangyaring bigyan ngsapat na oras ang HDOH para makatugon sa mga kahilingan sa akomodasyon.
Ke kole ʻa e lea fakafonua pe lava ʻo ngāue ʻaki ʻa e ngaahi polokalama HDOH pe ngaahi fakataha fakapuleʻangá, kātaki ʻo fetuʻutaki ki he Kōʻotineita ʻIkai-Filifilimānako ʻa e HDOH, ʻi he (808) 586-4400 pe ʻīmeili: [email&#160;protected] . Kātaki ʻo ʻoange ha taimi feʻunga maʻá e HDOH ke fakakakao ʻa e ngaahi kole ki he nofoʻangá.
หากต้องการขอภาษาอื่นเพิ่มเติมหรือการเข้าถึงโปรแกรม HDOH หรือการประชุมสาธารณะ โปรดติดต่อผู้ประสานงานด้านการไม่เลือกปฏิบัติของ HDOH ที่หมายเลข (808) 586-4400 หรืออีเมล: [email&#160;protected] โปรดให้เวลาอย่างเพียงพอเพื่อให้ทาง HDOH สามารถตอบสนองต่อคาขอที่พ ักได้
Để yêu cầu ngôn ngữ hoặc quyền tiếp cận các chương trình HDOH hoặc các cuộc họp công khai, vui lòng liên hệ với Điều phối viên Phụ trách về Không phân biệt Đối xử của HDOH theo số (808)586-4400 hoặc gửi email tới: [email&#160;protected] . Vui lòng choHDOH đủ thời gian để đáp ứng các yêu cầu về biện pháp trợ giúp đặc biệt.
Aron mohangyo og pinulongan o access para sa mga programa sa HDOH o publikong mga miting, palihog kontaka ang HDOH Non-Discrimination Coordinator, sa (808) 586-4400 o pag-email sa: [email&#160;protected] . Palihog paghatag og igong panahon aron maatiman sa HDOH ang hangyo para sa akomodasyon.
Hawaii.gov
Government Directory
Home » Hawaii Birth &#038; Marriage Certificates
Vital Records Navigation
Vital Records Home
Birth &#038; Marriage Certificates
Marriage/Civil Union Licenses
Death Certificates and Letters of Verification
Reciprocal Beneficiary Relationships
Apostilles
Genealogy Requests
Amendments
Establish Paternity
Late Birth Certificate
Hawaii Birth &#038; Marriage Certificates
How to Apply
ONLINE ORDERS (Fast/Highly Recommended)
Complete the order form at https://vitrec.ehawaii.gov/vitalrecords/ .
Have a government issued Identification (I.D.), (such as State Driver License, State Identification, or Passport) ready for upload.
Accepts only payment by debit or credit cards.
Certificates will be mailed to the return address provided.
Delays may occur if there is missing or incorrect information.
APOSTILLE OR AUTHENTICATION REQUESTS ARE MAIL-IN ONLY. Please download the forms at links as applicable.
Please note: The name on the debit or credit card should match the name of the person making the vital records request, otherwise, there may be delays. Refer to Costs & Payment for fee information below.
MAIL-IN ORDERS
Download and complete applications forms below.
Download Request For Certified Copy of Birth Record (fillable)
Download Request For Certified Copy of Civil Union or Marriage Record (fillable)
Mail form to the address below with applicable fees and a &#8220;copy&#8221; of the applicant&#8217;s government issued I.D . Refer to Costs & Payment for fee information.
State Department of Health
Office of Health Status Monitoring
Issuance/Vital Statistics Section
P.O. Box 3378
Honolulu, HI 96801
Apostilles or authentication requests are mail-in only.
Costs & Payment
For each application requesting copies , fees for certified copies of birth and marriage certificates are as follows:
$10.00
First Copy
$4.00
Each Additional Copy
$2.50
General Administration Fee (for up to 5 copies)
(Add another $2.50 fee for each additional increment up to 5 copies. For example, 6 through 10 copies equals a $5.00 fee and 11 through 15 copies equals a $7.50 fee)
Payment Methods :
For orders completed and submitted online, pay fees with a debit or credit card. The name on the debit or credit card should match the name of the person making the vital records request, otherwise, there may be delays.
For orders completed by mail, we only accept cashier’s checks, certified checks or money orders payable to the State Department of Health.
For orders completed in person, pay fees with cash, credit card, cashier’s check, certified check or money order payable to the State Department of Health.
Note: Please ensure the exact payment is enclosed. Any payment, under or over, may be returned.
Eligibility
A certified copy of a vital record (birth certificate, death certificate or marriage certificate) is issued only to an applicant who has a direct and tangible interest in the record. The following persons are considered to have such an interest:
The registrant (the person whom the record is concerned with);
The registrant’s spouse;
The registrant’s parent(s);
A descendant of the registrant (e.g., a child or grandchild);
A person having a common ancestor with the registrant (e.g., a sibling, grandparent, aunt/uncle, or cousin);
A legal guardian of the registrant;
A person or agency acting on behalf of the registrant;
A personal representative of the registrant’s estate;
A person whose right to obtain a copy of the record is established by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
Adoptive parents who have filed a petition for adoption and need to determine the death of one or more of the prospective adopted child’s natural or legal parents;
A person who needs to determine the marital status of a former spouse in order to determine the payment of alimony;
A person who needs to determine the death of a non-related co-owner of property purchased under a joint tenancy agreement; and
A person who needs a death certificate for the determination of payments under a credit insurance policy.
If you are not able to establish a direct and tangible interest in the record, you are ineligible and will not be issued a certified copy of the record.
A search of the records on file with the Department of Health will only be conducted to process an application requesting either a certified copy or a letter of verification. If the search establishes that the requested record is not on file, you will be notified that no record has been found. No searches of the records on file with the Department of Health will be conducted prior to or outside of the receipt of an application and payment of fees.
Letters of Verification
Letters of verification may be issued in lieu of certified copies (HRS §338-14.3). This document verifies the existence of a birth/death/marriage certificate on file with the Department of Health and any other information that the applicant provides to be verified relating to the vital event. (For example, that a certain named individual was born on a certain date at a certain place.) The verification process will not, however, disclose information about the vital event contained within the certificate that is unknown to and not provided by the applicant in the request.
Letters of verification are requested in a similar fashion and using the same request forms as for certified copies.
The fee for a letter of verification is $5 per letter.
Upon request, a letter of verification attesting to the existence of a requested record on file with the Department of Health may be issued. Instructions for applying for letters of verification are included in the next section and immediately follow the set of instructions on applying for certified copies. The same eligibility requirements apply for both certified copies and verification letters.
Processing Times
Processing times usually take up to 4-6 weeks for orders. Delays due to REAL ID requirements may occur and we ask that you remain patient. Other delays may be due to partial, missing or inaccurate information that may require additional time to locate, review, and verify a request for a record. Feel free to provide any supporting information to the best of your knowledge, if available. Mahalo for your patience.
About Us
Program Directory
Info Line 808-586-4400
Policies
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Contact e-mail