Go to Content
BOOK AN APPOINTMENT
All Planned Parenthood patients are asked to provide their name and pronouns, in addition to legal names, at check-in so that we can serve our patients with the highest level of courtesy.
At your initial visit, your clinician will discuss with you the informed consent process, your medical history, and will review both the positive effects and possible risk factors for hormone therapy. The clinician will perform routine lab work to make sure you are a healthy candidate for hormone therapy.
You will need to schedule periodic appointments at Planned Parenthood for routine lab work and monitoring. Your clinician will determine the best follow up schedule based upon your needs. Reaching your individualized transition goals will be a gradual process, and your clinician will discuss in-depth what that may look like.
Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas is proud to be your sexual healthcare provider in every way. In addition to hormone therapy services, please know that well-checks, STI testing and treatment, HIV testing, clinical breast exams, cervical cancer screenings, pregnancy testing, and other healthcare services are also available for transgender patients.
Based on the results of the visit, most patients have prescribed hormones that day. Together, you and your clinician will make the best decision for you . If you have any questions regarding our Gender Affirming Care program, please call 1-800-230-PLAN (7526).
Payment Options
Costs for Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy vary depending on your individual needs and insurance coverage, but generally include the initial consultation visit ($120-$150 per visit) plus the cost of laboratory fees and medication.
Planned Parenthood accepts most major insurance plans. We also accept payment by cash, check, and credit card. Payments are due at the time of service.
Planned Parenthood staff will contact your insurance provider to confirm hormone therapy services are covered, but we encourage all patients to contact their insurance providers prior to an appointment to ensure coverage.
Additional Resources for Transgender Patients
All patients will receive a list of social and community resources in their region. Medical, surgical, legal, and mental health provider resource lists are available upon request.
Criteria for Starting Hormone Therapy
Criteria for Starting Hormone Therapy
Hormone readiness is determined through informed consent. Informed consent means you can demonstrate understanding of both the risks and the benefits of hormone therapy and you and your clinician have both decided that this is the appropriate time for you to begin this process. Patients are not required to provide an approval letter from a therapist to start hormone therapy. PPGT believes that when fully informed, patients are capable of determining what is best for themselves and their health. We do encourage patients to connect with a mental health provider as indicated for quality, comprehensive care. Referrals for transgender-friendly mental health providers will be provided upon patient request.
Our criteria for hormone therapy reflect the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH) guidelines. Criteria to start hormone therapy may include the following:
· Ability to give informed consent
· Age of majority (18+ years old)
· Persistent gender dysphoria
· Any other medical or mental health issues are reasonably well controlled.
Your clinician will discuss these criteria in detail during your initial visit and determine whether they are fulfilled.
Informed consent
Hormone readiness is determined through informed consent. Informed consent means you can demonstrate understanding of both the risks and the benefits of hormone therapy and you and your clinician have both decided that this is the appropriate time for you to begin this process. Patients are not required to provide an approval letter from a therapist to start hormone therapy. PPGT believes that when fully informed, patients are capable of determining what is best for themselves and their health. We do encourage patients to connect with a mental health provider as indicated for quality, comprehensive care. Referrals for transgender-friendly mental health providers will be provided upon patient request.
Share Your Story
Have you received expert, compassionate care at a Planned Parenthood health center? We want to hear about it! Share your story by clicking here .
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all