1
IN THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND
R U L E S O R D E R
This Court’s Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and
Procedure having submitted its Two Hundred and Eleventh Report
and two Supplements thereto to the Court, recommending proposed
new Rules 11-420.1 and 15-902 and new Title 14, Chapter 600,
Division 2, containing new Rules 14-611, 14-612, 14-613, 14-614,
14-615, and 14-616; amendments to current Rules 1-102, 1-202, 2-
402, 2-652, 3-113, 3-306, 3-533, 3-534, 4-217, 7-102, 7-104, 8-
202, 9-105, 9-205, 9-205.3, 11-112, 11-204, 11-219, 11-220, 11-
404, 11-405, 11-406, 11-419, 11-422, 11-423, 11-424, 11-502, 14-
601, 14-602, 14-604, 14-606, 15-901, 16-110, 16-702, 16-914, 18-
302, 19-303.8, 19-414, and 19-501; and rescission of current
Rule 16-805; and
This Court having considered the proposed Rules changes,
together with comments received, at an open meeting, notice of
which was posted as prescribed by law, and making on its own
motion certain amendments to the proposed changes, it is this
30th day of September, 2022
ORDERED, by the Court of Appeals of Maryland, that new
Rules 11-420.1 and 15-902 and new Title 14, Chapter 600,
2
Division 2, containing new Rules 14-611, 14-612, 14-613, 14-614,
14-615, and 14-616 be, and they are hereby, adopted in the form
attached to this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that amendments to Rules 1-102, 1-202, 2-402, 2-
652, 3-113, 3-306, 4-217, 8-202, 9-105, 9-205, 9-205.3, 11-112,
11-204, 11-219, 11-220, 11-404, 11-405, 11-406, 11-419, 11-422,
11-423, 11-424, 11-502, 14-601, 14-602, 14-604, 14-606, 15-901,
16-914, 18-302, 19-303.8, and 19-414 be, and they are hereby,
adopted in the form attached to this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that Rule 16-805 be, and it is hereby, rescinded;
and it is further
ORDERED that the proposed amendments to Rules 3-533, 3-534,
7-102, and 7-104 be, and they are hereby, remanded to the
Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure for
further study; and it is further
ORDERED that action on the proposed amendments to Rules 16-
110, 16-702, and 19-501 be, and it is hereby, deferred for
further consideration by the Court; and it is further
ORDERED that the amendments to Rule 18-302 hereby adopted
by this Court shall govern the courts of this State and all
3
parties and their attorneys in all actions and proceedings, and
shall take effect and apply to all actions commenced on or after
November 1, 2022 and, insofar as practicable, to all actions
then pending; and it is further
ORDERED that the amendments to Rule 19-414 hereby adopted
by this Court shall govern the courts of this State and all
parties and their attorneys in all actions and proceedings, and
due to exigent circumstances shall take effect and apply to all
actions commenced on or after October 1, 2022 and, insofar as
practicable, to all actions then pending; and it is further
ORDERED that all other Rules changes hereby adopted by this
Court shall govern the courts of this State and all parties and
their attorneys in all actions and proceedings, and shall take
effect and apply to all actions commenced on or after January 1,
2023 and, insofar as practicable, to all actions then pending;
and it is further
ORDERED that a copy of this Order be posted promptly on the
website of the Maryland Judiciary.
/s/ Matthew J. Fader
Matthew J. Fader
4
/s/ Shirley M. Watts
Shirley M. Watts
/s/ Michele D. Hotten
Michele D. Hotten
/s/ Brynja M. Booth
Brynja M. Booth
/s/ Jonathan Biran
Jonathan Biran
/s/ Steven B. Gould
Steven B. Gould
/s/ Angela M. Eaves
Angela M. Eaves
Filed: September 30, 2022
/s/ Suzanne C. Johnson
Clerk
Court of Appeals of Maryland
5
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 1 – GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 100 – APPLICABILITY AND CITATION
AMEND Rule 1-102 by deleting the provisions pertaining to
the appointment of bail bond commissioners and licensing and
regulation of bail bondsmen, and by making stylistic changes, as
follows:
Rule 1-102. CIRCUIT AND LOCAL RULES
Unless inconsistent with these rules, circuit and local
rules regulating (1) court libraries, (2) memorial proceedings,
(3) auditors, and (4) compensation of trustees in judicial
sales, and (5) appointment of bail bond commissioners and
licensing and regulation of bail bondsmen, are not repealed. No
circuit and local rules, other than ones regulating the matters
and subjects listed in this Rule, shall be adopted.
Source: This Rule is derived from former Rule 1 f.
6
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 1 – GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 100 – CONSTRUCTION, INTERPRETATION, AND DEFINITIONS
AMEND Rule 1-202 by updating a cross reference following
section (k), as follows:
Rule 1-202. DEFINITIONS
. . .
(k) Holiday
“Holiday” means an “employee holiday” set forth in Code,
State Personnel and Pensions Article, § 9-201.
Committee note: The “employee holidays” listed in Code, State
Personnel and Pensions Article are:
(1) January 1, for New Year's Day;
(2) January 15, for Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday,
unless the United States Congress designates another day for
observance of that legal holiday, in which case, the day
designated by the United States Congress;
(3) the third Monday in February, for Presidents' Day;
(4) May 30, for Memorial Day, unless the United States Congress
designates another day for observance of that legal holiday, in
which case, the day designated by the United States Congress;
(5) June 19, for Juneteenth National Independence Day;
(5)(6) July 4, for Independence Day;
(6)(7) the first Monday in September, for Labor Day;
(7)(8) October 12, for Columbus Day, unless the United States
Congress designates another day for observance of that legal
holiday, in which case, the day designated by the United States
Congress;
(8)(9) November 11, for Veterans' Day;
(9)(10) the fourth Thursday in November, for Thanksgiving Day;
(10)(11) the Friday after Thanksgiving Day, for American Indian
Heritage Day;
(11)(12) December 25, for Christmas Day;
(12)(13) each statewide general election day in this State; and
7
(13)(14) each other day that the President of the United States
or the Governor designates for general cessation of business.
. . .
8
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 2 – CIVIL PROCEDURE – CIRCUIT COURT
CHAPTER 400 – DISCOVERY
AMEND Rule 2-402 by adding new subsection (g)(1)(C)
concerning the protection of draft reports and disclosures of
expert witnesses, by adding new subsection (g)(1)(D) regarding
the protection of certain communications with an expert witness,
and by adding a Committee note after the new subsections, as
follows:
Rule 2-402. SCOPE OF DISCOVERY
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with these rules, the scope of discovery is as
follows:
(a) Generally
A party may obtain discovery regarding any matter that is
not privileged, including the existence, description, nature,
custody, condition, and location of any documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things and the
identity and location of persons having knowledge of any
discoverable matter, if the matter sought is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the action, whether it relates to the
claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or to the claim
9
or defense of any other party. It is not ground for objection
that the information sought is already known to or otherwise
obtainable by the party seeking discovery or that the
information will be inadmissible at the trial if the information
sought appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. An interrogatory or deposition question
otherwise proper is not objectionable merely because the
response involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact
or the application of law to fact.
(b) Limitations and Modifications; Electronically Stored
Information Not Reasonably Accessible
(1) Generally
In a particular case, the court, on motion or on its own
initiative and after consultation with the parties, by order may
limit or modify these rules on the length and number of
depositions, the number of interrogatories, the number of
requests for production of documents, and the number of requests
for admissions. The court shall limit the frequency or extent
of use of the discovery methods otherwise permitted under these
rules if it determines that (A) the discovery sought is
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative or is obtainable from
some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive; (B) the party seeking discovery has had ample
opportunity by discovery in the action to obtain the information
10
sought; or (C) the burden or cost of the proposed discovery
outweighs its likely benefit, taking into account the complexity
of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources,
the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation, and the
importance of the proposed discovery in resolving the issues.
(2) Electronically Stored Information Not Reasonably
Accessible
A party may decline to provide discovery of
electronically stored information on the ground that the sources
are not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost.
A party who declines to provide discovery on this ground shall
identify the sources alleged to be not reasonably accessible and
state the reasons why production from each identified source
would cause undue burden or cost. The statement of reasons
shall provide enough detail to enable the requesting party to
evaluate the burdens and costs of providing the discovery and
the likelihood of finding responsive information in the
identified sources. On a motion to compel discovery, the party
from whom discovery is sought shall first establish that the
information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden
or cost. If that showing is made, the party requesting
discovery shall establish that its need for the discovery
outweighs the burden and cost of locating, retrieving, and
producing the information. If persuaded that the need for
11
discovery does outweigh the burden and cost, the court may order
discovery and specify conditions, including an assessment of
costs.
Committee note: The term “electronically stored information”
has the same broad meaning in this Rule that it has in Rule 2-
422, encompassing, without exception, whatever is stored
electronically. Subsection (b)(2) addresses the difficulties
that may be associated with locating, retrieving, and providing
discovery of some electronically stored information.
Ordinarily, the reasonable costs of retrieving and reviewing
electronically stored information are borne by the responding
party. At times, however, the information sought is not
reasonably available to the responding party in the ordinary
course of business. For example, restoring deleted data,
disaster recovery tapes, residual data, or legacy systems may
involve extraordinary effort or resources to restore the data to
an accessible format. This subsection empowers the court, after
considering the factors listed in subsection (b)(1), to shift or
share costs if the demand is unduly burdensome because of the
nature of the effort involved to comply and the requesting party
has demonstrated substantial need or justification. See, The
Sedona Conference, The Sedona Principles: Best Practices
Recommendations and Principles for Addressing Electronic
Document Production, (2d ed. 2007), Principle 13 and related
Comment.
(c) Insurance Agreement
A party may obtain discovery of the existence and
contents of any insurance agreement under which any person
carrying on an insurance business might be liable to satisfy
part or all of a judgment that might be entered in the action or
to indemnify or reimburse for payments made to satisfy the
judgment. Information concerning the insurance agreement is not
by reason of disclosure admissible in evidence at trial. For
12
purposes of this section, an application for insurance shall not
be treated as part of an insurance agreement.
(d) Work Product
Subject to the provisions of sections (f) and (g) of this
Rule, a party may obtain discovery of documents, electronically
stored information, and tangible things prepared in anticipation
of litigation or for trial by or for another party or by or for
that other party's representative (including an attorney,
consultant, surety, indemnitor, insurer, or agent) only upon a
showing that the materials are discoverable under section (a) of
this Rule and that the party seeking discovery has substantial
need for the materials in the preparation of the case and is
unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial
equivalent of the materials by other means. In ordering
discovery of these materials when the required showing has been
made, the court shall protect against disclosure of the mental
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an
attorney or other representative of a party concerning the
litigation.
(e) Claims of Privilege or Protection
(1) Information Withheld
A party who withholds information on the ground that it
is privileged or subject to protection shall describe the nature
of the documents, electronically stored information,
13
communications, or things not produced or disclosed in a manner
that, without revealing the privileged or protected information,
will enable other parties to assess the applicability of the
privilege or protection.
(2) Duty of Recipient
A party who receives a document, electronically stored
information, or other property that the party knows or
reasonably should know was inadvertently sent shall promptly
notify the sender.
(3) Information Produced
Within a reasonable time after information is produced
in discovery that is subject to a claim of privilege or of
protection, the party who produced the information shall notify
each party who received the information of the claim and the
basis for it. A party who wishes to determine the validity of a
claim of privilege or protection that is not controlled by a
court order or a disclosure agreement entered into pursuant to
subsection (e)(5) of this Rule shall promptly file a motion
under seal requesting that the court determine the validity of
the claim. A party in possession of information that is the
subject of the motion shall appropriately preserve the
information pending a ruling. A receiving party may not use or
disclose the information until the claim is resolved and shall
14
take reasonable steps to retrieve any information the receiving
party disclosed before being notified.
Cross reference: Rule 19-304.4 (b) of the Maryland Attorneys'
Rules of Professional Conduct.
Committee note: Subsection (e)(3) allows a producing party to
assert a claim of privilege or protection after production
because it is increasingly costly and time-consuming to review
all electronically stored information in advance. Unlike the
corresponding federal rule, a party must raise a claim of
privilege or protection within a “reasonable time.” See Elkton
Care Center Associates v. Quality Care Management, Inc., 145 Md.
App. 532 (2002).
(4) Effect of Inadvertent Disclosure
A disclosure of a communication or information covered
by a privilege or protection does not operate as a waiver if the
holder of the privilege or work product protection (A) made the
disclosure inadvertently, (B) took reasonable precautions to
prevent disclosure, and (C) took reasonably prompt measures to
rectify the error once the holder knew or should have known of
the disclosure.
Committee note: Courts in other jurisdictions are in conflict
over whether an inadvertent disclosure of privileged or
protected information constitutes a waiver. A few courts find
that a disclosure must be intentional to be a waiver. Most
courts find a waiver only if the disclosing party acted
carelessly in disclosing the communication or information and
failed to request its return in a timely manner. A few other
courts hold that any mistaken disclosure of protected
information constitutes waiver without regard to the protections
taken to avoid such a disclosure. See generally Hopson v. City
of Baltimore, 232 F.R.D. 228 (D. Md. 2005) for a discussion of
this case law.
This subsection opts for the middle ground: inadvertent
disclosure of privileged or protected information in connection
15
with a state or federal proceeding constitutes a waiver only if
the party did not take reasonable precautions to prevent
disclosure and did not make reasonable and prompt efforts to
rectify the error. This position is in accord with Maryland
common law, see, e.g., Elkton Care Center Associates v. Quality
Care Management, Inc., 145 Md. App. 532 (2002), and the majority
view on whether inadvertent disclosure is a waiver. See, e.g.,
Zapata v. IBP, Inc., 175 F.R.D. 574, 576-77 (D. Kan. 1997) (work
product); Hydraflow, Inc. v. Enidine, Inc., 145 F.R.D. 626, 637
(W.D.N.Y. 1993) (attorney-client privilege); Edwards v.
Whitaker, 868 F.Supp. 226, 229 (M.D. Tenn. 1994) (attorney-
client privilege).
(5) Controlling Effect of Court Orders and Agreements
Unless incorporated into a court order, an agreement as
to the effect of disclosure of a communication or information
covered by a privilege or protection is binding on the parties
to the agreement but not on other persons. If the agreement is
incorporated into a court order, the order governs all persons
or entities, whether or not they are or were parties.
Committee note: Parties may agree to certain protocols to
minimize the risk of waiver of a claim of privilege or
protection. One example is a “clawback” agreement, meaning an
agreement that production will occur without a waiver of
privilege or protection as long as the producing party promptly
identifies the privileged or protected documents that have been
produced. See The Sedona Conference, The Sedona Principles:
Best Practices Recommendations and Principles for Addressing
Electronic Document Production, (2d ed. 2007), Comment 10.a.
Another example is a “quick peek” agreement, meaning that the
responding party provides certain requested materials for
initial examination without waiving any privilege or protection.
The requesting party then designates the documents it wishes to
have actually produced, and the producing party may assert any
privilege or protection. Id., Comment 10.d.
Subsection (e)(5) codifies the well-established proposition that
parties can enter into an agreement to limit the effect of
waiver by disclosure between or among them. See, e.g., Dowd v.
Calabrese, 101 F.R.D. 427, 439 (D.D.C. 1984) (no waiver where
16
the parties stipulated in advance that certain testimony at a
deposition “would not be deemed to constitute a waiver of the
attorney-client or work product privileges”); Zubulake v. UBS
Warburg LLC, 216 F.R.D. 280, 290 (S.D.N.Y. 2003) (noting that
parties may enter into “so-called ‘claw-back’ agreements that
allow the parties to forego privilege review altogether in favor
of an agreement to return inadvertently produced privileged
documents”). Of course, such an agreement can bind only the
parties to the agreement. The subsection makes clear that if
parties want protection from a finding of waiver by disclosure
in separate litigation, the agreement must be made part of a
court order. Confidentiality orders are important in limiting
the costs of privilege review and retention, especially in cases
involving electronic discovery. The utility of a
confidentiality order is substantially diminished if it provides
no protection outside the particular litigation in which the
order is entered. Parties are unlikely to be able to reduce the
costs of preproduction review for privilege or protection if the
consequence of disclosure is that the information can be used by
nonparties to the litigation.
Subsection (e)(5) provides that an agreement of the parties
governing confidentiality of disclosures is enforceable against
nonparties only if it is incorporated in a court order, but
there can be no assurance that this enforceability will be
recognized by courts other than those of this State. There is
some dispute as to whether a confidentiality order entered in
one case can bind nonparties from asserting waiver by disclosure
in separate litigation. See generally Hopson v. City of
Baltimore, 232 F.R.D. 228 (D. Md. 2005), for a discussion of
this case law.
(f) Trial Preparation - Party's or Witness' Own Statement
A party may obtain a statement concerning the action or
its subject matter previously made by that party without the
showing required under section (d) of this Rule. A person who
is not a party may obtain, or may authorize in writing a party
to obtain, a statement concerning the action or its subject
matter previously made by that person without the showing
required under section (d) of this Rule. For purposes of this
17
section, a statement previously made is (1) a written statement
signed or otherwise adopted or approved by the person making it,
or (2) a stenographic, mechanical, electrical, or other
recording, or a transcription thereof, that is a substantially
verbatim recital of an oral statement by the person making it
and contemporaneously recorded.
(g) Trial Preparation - Experts
(1) Expected to be Called at Trial
(A) Generally
Subject to subsection (g)(1)(C) of this Rule, a party
by interrogatories may require any other party to identify each
person, other than a party, whom the other party expects to call
as an expert witness at trial; to state the subject matter on
which the expert is expected to testify; to state the substance
of the findings and the opinions to which the expert is expected
to testify and a summary of the grounds for each opinion; and to
produce any written report made by the expert concerning those
findings and opinions. A party also may take the deposition of
the expert.
Committee note: This subsection requires a party to disclose
the name and address of any witness who may give an expert
opinion at trial, whether or not that person was retained in
anticipation of litigation or for trial. Cf. Dorsey v. Nold,
362 Md. 241 (2001). See Rule 104.10 of the Rules of the U.S.
District Court for the District of Maryland. The subsection
does not require, however, that a party name himself or herself
as an expert. See Turgut v. Levin, 79 Md. App. 279 (1989).
18
(B) Additional Disclosure with Respect to Experts Retained
in Anticipation of Litigation or for Trial
In addition to the discovery permitted under
subsection (g)(1)(A) of this Rule, a party by interrogatories
may require the other party to summarize the qualifications of a
person expected to be called as an expert witness at trial and
whose findings and opinions were acquired or obtained in
anticipation of litigation or for trial, to produce any
available list of publications written by that expert, and to
state the terms of the expert's compensation.
(C) Protection for Draft Reports or Disclosures
A party is not entitled to the discovery of drafts of
any report or disclosure required under subsection (g)(1)(A) of
this Rule regardless of the form in which the draft is recorded.
(D) Protection for Communications Between a Party’s
Attorney and Expert Witnesses
A party is not entitled to the discovery of
communications between another party’s attorney and an expert
witness, regardless of the form of the communication, except to
the extent that the communication (i) relates to compensation
for the expert’s study or testimony, (ii) identifies facts or
data that the attorney provided and the expert considered in
forming the opinion to be expressed, or (iii) identifies
19
assumptions that the party’s attorney provided and the expert
relied on in forming the opinions to be expressed.
Committee note: Subsections (g)(1)(C) and (g)(1)(D) are derived
from Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(4). See the Advisory Committee
notes for the 2010 amendment attached to the federal provisions
for discussion of how these provisions are intended to operate.
(2) Not Expected to Be Called at Trial
When an expert has been retained by a party in
anticipation of litigation or preparation for trial but is not
expected to be called as a witness at trial, discovery of the
identity, findings, and opinions of the expert may be obtained
only if a showing of the kind required by section (d) of this
Rule is made.
(3) Fees and Expenses of Deposition
Unless the court orders otherwise on the ground of
manifest injustice, the party seeking discovery: (A) shall pay
each expert a reasonable fee, at a rate not exceeding the rate
charged by the expert for time spent preparing for a deposition,
for the time spent in attending a deposition and for the time
and expenses reasonably incurred in travel to and from the
deposition; and (B) when obtaining discovery under subsection
(g)(2) of this Rule, shall pay each expert a reasonable fee for
preparing for the deposition.
Source: This Rule is derived as follows:
Section (a) is derived from former Rule 400 c and the 1980
version of Fed. R. Civ. P. 33 (b).
20
Section (b) is new and is derived from the 2000 version of Fed.
R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(2), except that subsection (b)(2) is derived
from the 2006 Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(2)(B).
Section (c) is new and is in part derived from the 1980 version
of Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(2).
Section (d) is derived from former Rule 400 d.
Section (e) is new and is derived from the 2006 version of Fed.
R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(5).
Section (f) is derived from former Rule 400 e.
Subsections (g)(1)(A) and (B) is are derived in part from the
1980 version of Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(4) and former Rule 400 f
and is in part new. Subsections (g)(1)(C) and (D) are derived
from the 2010 version of Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(4).
Subsection (g)(2) is derived from the 1980 version of Fed. R.
Civ. P. 26 (b)(4) and former Rule U12 b.
Subsection (g)(3) is derived in part from the 1980 version of
Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 (b)(4) and is in part new.
21
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 2 – CIVIL PROCEDURE – CIRCUIT COURT
CHAPTER 600 – JUDGMENT
AMEND Rule 2-652 by deleting section (a) and the related
cross reference, and by re-lettering and conforming subsequent
sections to account for the deletion, as follows:
Rule 2-652. ENFORCEMENT OF ATTORNEY’S LIENS
(a) Retaining Lien
Except as otherwise provided by the Maryland Attorneys'
Rules of Professional Conduct, an attorney who has a common-law
retaining lien for legal services rendered to a client may
assert the lien by retaining the papers of the client in the
possession of the attorney until the attorney's claim is
satisfied.
Cross reference: Maryland Attorneys' Rules of Professional
Conduct 19-301.8, 19-301.15, and 19-301.16.
(b)(a) Statutory Lien
An attorney who has a lien under Code, Business
Occupations and Professions Article, § 10-501, may assert the
lien by serving a written notice by certified mail or personal
delivery upon the client and upon each person against whom the
lien is to be enforced. The notice shall claim the lien, state
the attorney's interest in the action, proceeding, settlement,
22
judgment, or award, and inform the client or other person to
hold any money payable or property passing to the client
relating to the action, proceeding, settlement, judgment, or
award.
Cross reference: Code, Business Occupations and Professions
Article, § 10-501(d).
(c)(b) Adjudication of Rights and Lien Disputes
(1) When a Circuit Court Action Has Been Filed
If a lien asserted pursuant to this Rule relates to an
action that has been filed in a circuit court of this State, on
motion filed by the attorney, the attorney's client in the
action, or any person who has received a notice pursuant to
section (b)(a) of this Rule, the court shall adjudicate the
rights of the parties in relation to the lien, including the
attorney's entitlement to a lien, any dispute as to the papers
subject to a lien under section (a) of this Rule, and the amount
of the attorney's claim.
(2) When No Circuit Court Action Has Been Filed
If a lien is asserted pursuant to this Rule and a
related action has not been filed in a circuit court of this
State, the attorney, the attorney's client, or any person who
has received a notice pursuant to section (b)(a) of this Rule
may file a complaint with a circuit court to adjudicate the
rights of the parties in relation to the lien, including the
23
attorney's entitlement to a lien, any dispute as to the papers
subject to a lien under section (a) of this Rule, and the amount
of the attorney's claim.
Cross reference: For venue of a complaint filed pursuant to
this section, see Code, Courts Article, §§ 6-201 - 203.
Source: This Rule is new.
24
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 3 – CIVIL PROCEDURE – DISTRICT COURT
CHAPTER 100 – COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION AND PROCESS
AMEND Rule 3-113 by changing the time a summons is
effective for service after the date of issuance, as follows:
Rule 3-113. PROCESS – DURATION, DORMANCY, AND RENEWAL OF SUMMONS
A summons is effective for service only if served within 30
60 days after the date it is issued. A summons not served
within that time shall be dormant, renewable only on written
request of the plaintiff.
Committee note: See Neel v. Webb Fly Screen Mfg. Co., 187 Md.
34, 48 A.2d 331 (1946).
Source: This Rule is new and replaces former M.D.R. 103 d 2.
25
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 3 – CIVIL PROCEDURE – DISTRICT COURT
CHAPTER 300 – PLEADINGS AND MOTIONS
AMEND Rule 3-306 by revising the definition of “original
creditor” in subsection (a)(5), as follows:
Rule 3-306. JUDGMENT ON AFFIDAVIT
(a) Definitions
In this Rule the following definitions apply except as
expressly otherwise provided or as necessary implication
requires:
(1) Charge-Off
“Charge-off” means the act of a creditor that treats an
account receivable or other debt as a loss or expense because
payment is unlikely.
(2) Charge-Off Balance
“Charge-off balance” means the amount due on the account
or debt at the time of charge-off.
(3) Consumer Debt
“Consumer debt” means a secured or unsecured debt that
is for money owed or alleged to be owed and arises from a
consumer transaction.
(4) Consumer Transaction
26
“Consumer transaction” means a transaction involving an
individual seeking or acquiring real or personal property,
services, future services, money, or credit for personal,
family, or household purposes.
(5) Original Creditor
“Original creditor” means the lender, provider, or other
person to whom a consumer originally was alleged to owe money
pursuant to a consumer transaction. “Original creditor”
includes a creditor excluded from the definition of “debt buyer”
in Code, Courts Article, § 5-1201(i)(2) and the Central
Collection Unit, a unit within the State Department of Budget
and Management.
(6) Original Consumer Debt
“Original consumer debt” means the total of the consumer
debt alleged to be owed to the original creditor, consisting of
principal, interest, fees, and any other charges.
Committee note: If there has been a charge-off, the amount of
the “original consumer debt” is the same as the “charge-off
balance.”
(7) Principal
“Principal” means the unpaid balance of the funds
borrowed, the credit utilized, the sales price of goods or
services obtained, or the capital sum of any other debt or
obligation arising from a consumer transaction, alleged to be
owed to the original creditor. It does not include interest,
27
fees, or charges added to the debt or obligation by the original
creditor or any subsequent assignees of the consumer debt.
(8) Future Services
“Future services” means one or more services that will
be delivered at a future time.
(9) Future Services Contract
“Future services contract” means an agreement that
obligates a consumer to purchase a future service from a
provider.
(10) Provider
“Provider” means any person who sells a service or
future service to a consumer.
(b) Demand for Judgment by Affidavit
In an action for money damages a plaintiff may file a
demand for judgment on affidavit at the time of filing the
complaint commencing the action. The complaint shall be
supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law in the amount claimed.
(c) Affidavit and Attachments - General Requirements
The affidavit shall:
(1) be made on personal knowledge;
(2) set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence;
(3) show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to
testify to the matters stated in the affidavit; and
28
(4) include or be accompanied by:
(A) supporting documents or statements containing
sufficient detail as to liability and damages, including the
precise amount of the claim and any interest claimed;
(B) if interest is claimed, an interest worksheet
substantially in the form prescribed by the Chief Judge of the
District Court;
(C) if attorneys' fees are claimed, sufficient proof
evidencing that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of
attorneys' fees and that the fees are reasonable; and
(D) if the claim is founded upon a note, security
agreement, or other instrument, the original or a photocopy of
the executed instrument, or a sworn or certified copy, unless
the absence thereof is explained in the affidavit.
(d) If Claim Arises From Assigned Consumer Debt
If the claim arises from consumer debt and the plaintiff
is not the original creditor, the affidavit also shall include
or be accompanied by (i) the items listed in this section, and
(ii) an Assigned Consumer Debt Checklist, substantially in the
form prescribed by the Chief Judge of the District Court,
listing the items and information supplied in or with the
affidavit in conformance with this Rule. Each document that
accompanies the affidavit shall be clearly numbered as an
exhibit and referenced by number in the Checklist.
29
(1) Proof of the Existence of the Debt or Account
Proof of the existence of the debt or account shall be
made by a certified or otherwise properly authenticated
photocopy or original of at least one of the following:
(A) a document signed by the defendant evidencing the debt
or the opening of the account;
(B) a bill or other record reflecting purchases, payments,
or other actual use of a credit card or account by the
defendant; or
(C) an electronic printout or other documentation from the
original creditor establishing the existence of the account and
showing purchases, payments, or other actual use of a credit
card or account by the defendant.
(2) Proof of Terms and Conditions
(A) Except as provided in subsection (d)(2)(B) of this
Rule, if there was a document evidencing the terms and
conditions to which the consumer debt was subject, a certified
or otherwise properly authenticated photocopy or original of the
document actually applicable to the consumer debt at issue shall
accompany the affidavit.
(B) Subsection (d)(2)(A) of this Rule does not apply if
(i) the consumer debt is an unpaid balance due on a credit card;
(ii) the original creditor is or was a financial institution
subject to regulation by the Federal Financial Institutions
30
Examination Council or a constituent federal agency of that
Council; and (iii) the claim does not include a demand or
request for attorneys' fees or interest on the charge-off
balance in excess of the Maryland Constitutional rate of six
percent per annum.
Committee note: This Rule is procedural only, and subsection
(d)(2)(B)(iii) is not intended to address the substantive issue
of whether interest in any amount may be charged on a part of
the charge-off balance that, under applicable and enforceable
Maryland law, may be regarded as interest.
Cross reference: See Federal Financial Institutions Examination
Council Uniform Retail Credit Classification and Account
Management Policy, 65 Fed. Reg. 36903-36906 (June 12, 2000).
(3) Proof of Plaintiff's Ownership
The affidavit shall contain a statement that the
plaintiff owns the consumer debt. It shall include or be
accompanied by:
(A) a chronological listing of the names of all prior
owners of the debt and the date of each transfer of ownership of
the debt, beginning with the name of the original creditor; and
(B) a certified or other properly authenticated copy of
the bill of sale or other document that transferred ownership of
the debt to each successive owner, including the plaintiff.
Committee note: If a bill of sale or other document transferred
debts in addition to the consumer debt upon which the action is
based, the documentation required by subsection (d)(3)(B) of
this Rule may be in the form of a redacted document that
provides the general terms of the bill of sale or other document
and the document's specific reference to the debt sued upon.
31
(4) Identification and Nature of Debt or Account
The affidavit shall include the following information:
(A) the name of the original creditor;
(B) the full name of the defendant as it appears on the
original account;
(C) the last four digits of the social security number for
the defendant appearing on the original account, if known;
(D) the last four digits of the original account number;
and
(E) the nature of the consumer transaction, such as
utility, credit card, consumer loan, retail installment sales
agreement, service, or future services.
(5) Future Services Contract Information
If the claim is based on a future services contract, the
affidavit shall contain facts evidencing that the plaintiff
currently is entitled to an award of damages under that
contract.
(6) Account Charge-Off Information
If there has been a charge-off of the account, the
affidavit shall contain the following information:
(A) the date of the charge-off;
(B) the charge-off balance;
(C) an itemization of any fees or charges claimed by the
plaintiff in addition to the charge-off balance;
32
(D) an itemization of all post-charge-off payments
received and other credits to which the defendant is entitled;
and
(E) the date of the last payment on the consumer debt or
of the last transaction giving rise to the consumer debt.
(7) Information for Debts and Accounts Not Charged Off
If there has been no charge-off, the affidavit shall
contain:
(A) an itemization of all money claimed by the plaintiff,
(i) including principal, interest, finance charges, service
charges, late fees, and any other fees or charges added to the
principal by the original creditor and, if applicable, by
subsequent assignees of the consumer debt and (ii) accounting
for any reduction in the amount of the claim by virtue of any
payment made or other credit to which the defendant is entitled;
(B) a statement of the amount and date of the consumer
transaction giving rise to the consumer debt, or in instances of
multiple transactions, the amount and date of the last
transaction; and
(C) a statement of the amount and date of the last payment
on the consumer debt.
(8) Licensing Information
33
The affidavit shall include a list of all Maryland
collection agency licenses that the plaintiff currently holds
and provide the following information as to each:
(A) license number,
(B) name appearing on the license, and
(C) date of issue.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 5-1203(b)(2),
concerning the plaintiff's requirements if a judgment on
affidavit under section (d) of this Rule is denied.
(e) Subsequent Proceedings
(1) When Notice of Intention to Defend Filed
If the defendant files a timely notice of intention to
defend pursuant to Rule 3-307, the plaintiff shall appear in
court on the trial date prepared for a trial on the merits. If
the defendant fails to appear in court on the trial date, the
court may proceed as if the defendant failed to file a timely
notice of intention to defend.
(2) When No Notice of Intention to Defend Filed
(A) If the defendant fails to file a timely notice of
intention to defend, the plaintiff need not appear in court on
the trial date and the court may determine liability and damages
on the basis of the complaint, affidavit, and supporting
documents filed pursuant to this Rule. If the defendant fails
to appear in court on the trial date and the court determines
that the pleading and documentary evidence are sufficient to
34
entitle the plaintiff to judgment, the court shall grant the
demand for judgment on affidavit.
(B) If the court determines that the pleading and
documentary evidence are insufficient to entitle the plaintiff
to judgment on affidavit, the court may deny the demand for
judgment on affidavit or may grant a continuance to permit the
plaintiff to supplement the documentary evidence filed with the
demand. If the defendant appears in court at the time set for
trial and it is established to the court's satisfaction that the
defendant may have a meritorious defense, the court shall deny
the demand for judgment on affidavit. If the demand for
judgment on affidavit is denied or the court grants a
continuance pursuant to this section, the clerk shall set a new
trial date and mail notice of the reassignment to the parties,
unless the plaintiff is in court and requests the court to
proceed with trial.
Cross reference: Rule 3-509.
(f) Reduction in Amount of Damages
Before entry of judgment, the plaintiff shall inform the
court of any reduction in the amount of the claim by virtue of
any payment or other credit.
(g) Notice of Judgment on Affidavit
When a demand for judgment on affidavit is granted, the
clerk shall mail notice of the judgment promptly after its entry
35
to each party at the latest address stated in the pleadings.
The notice shall inform (1) the plaintiff of the right to obtain
a lien on real property pursuant to Rule 3-621, and (2) the
defendant of the right to file a motion to vacate the judgment
within 30 days after its entry pursuant to Rule 3-535 (a). The
clerk shall ensure that the docket or file reflects compliance
with this section.
Source: This Rule is derived as follows:
Section (a) is new.
Section (b) is derived from former M.D.R. 610 a.
Section (c) is derived from former M.D.R. 610 a.
Section (d) is new.
Section (e) is derived from former M.D.R. 610 b, c, and d.
Section (f) is derived from former M.D.R. 610 e.
Section (g) is derived from former M.D.R. 610 d.
36
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 4 – CRIMINAL CAUSES
CHAPTER 200 – PRETRIAL PROCEEDURES
AMEND Rule 4-217 by deleting subsection (b)(3); by deleting
the cross reference following subsection (b)(3); by re-numbering
the definitions contained in subsections (b)(4) through (b)(7)
as subsections (b)(3) through (b)(6), respectively; by deleting
the cross reference following subsection (d)(3)(C); by deleting
the provision relating to a bail bond commissioner and the
reference to Rule 16-805 from subsection (i)(5)(C); and by
making stylistic changes, as follows:
Rule 4-217. CIRCUIT AND LOCAL RULES
(a) Applicability of Rule
This Rule applies to all bail bonds taken pursuant to
Rule 4-216, 4-216.1, 4-216.2, or 4-216.3, and to bonds taken
pursuant to Rules 4-267, 4-348, and 4-349 to the extent
consistent with those rules.
(b) Definitions
As used in this Rule, the following words have the
following meanings:
(1) Bail Bond
37
“Bail bond” means a written obligation of a defendant,
with or without a surety or collateral security, conditioned on
the appearance of the defendant as required and providing for
the payment of a penalty sum according to its terms.
(2) Bail Bondsman
“Bail bondsman” means an authorized agent of a surety
insurer.
(3) Bail Bond Commissioner
“Bail bond commissioner” means any person appointed to
administer rules adopted pursuant to Maryland Rule 16-805.
Cross reference: Code, Criminal Procedure Article, § 5-203.
(4)(3) Clerk
“Clerk” means the clerk of the court and any deputy or
administrative clerk.
(5)(4) Collateral Security
“Collateral security” means any property deposited,
pledged, or encumbered to secure the performance of a bail bond.
(6)(5) Surety
“Surety” means a person other than the defendant who, by
executing a bail bond, guarantees the appearance of the
defendant, and includes an uncompensated or accommodation
surety.
(7)(6) Surety Insurer
38
“Surety insurer” means any person in the business of
becoming, either directly or through an authorized agent, a
surety on a bail bond for compensation.
(c) Authorization to Take Bail Bond
Any clerk, District Court commissioner, or other person
authorized by law may take a bail bond. The person who takes a
bail bond shall deliver it to the court in which the charges are
pending, together with all money or other collateral security
deposited or pledged and all documents pertaining to the bail
bond.
Cross reference: Code, Criminal Procedure Article, §§ 5-204 and
5-205. See Code, Insurance Article, § 10-309, which requires a
signed affidavit of surety by the defendant or the insurer that
shall be provided to the court if payment of premiums charged
for bail bonds is in installments.
(d) Qualification of Surety
(1) In General
The Chief Clerk of the District Court shall maintain a
list containing: (A) the names of all surety insurers who are in
default, and have been for a period of 60 days or more, in the
payment of any bail bond forfeited in any court in the State,;
(B) the names of all bail bondsmen authorized to write bail
bonds in this State,; and (C) the limit for any one bond
specified in the bail bondsman's general power of attorney on
file with the Chief Clerk of the District Court. The clerk of
each circuit court and the Chief Clerk of the District Court
39
shall notify the Insurance Commissioner of the name of each
surety insurer who has failed to resolve or satisfy bond
forfeitures for a period of 60 days or more. The clerk of each
circuit court also shall send a copy of the list to the Chief
Clerk of the District Court.
Cross reference: For penalties imposed on surety insurers in
default, see Code, Insurance Article, § 21-103(a).
(2) Surety Insurer
No bail bond shall be accepted if the surety on the bond
is on the current list maintained by the Chief Clerk of the
District Court of those in default. No bail bond executed by a
surety insurer directly may be accepted unless accompanied by an
affidavit reciting that the surety insurer is authorized by the
Insurance Commissioner of Maryland to write bail bonds in this
State.
Cross reference: For the obligation of the District Court Clerk
or a circuit court clerk to notify the Insurance Commissioner
concerning a surety insurer who fails to resolve or satisfy bond
forfeitures, see Code, Insurance Article, § 21-103(b).
(3) Bail Bondsman
No bail bond executed by a bail bondsman may be accepted
unless the bondsman's name appears on the most recent list
maintained by the Chief Clerk of the District Court, the bail
bond is within the limit specified in the bondsman's general
power of attorney as shown on the list or in a special power of
40
attorney filed with the bond, and the bail bond is accompanied
by an affidavit reciting that the bail bondsman:
(A) is duly licensed in the jurisdiction in which the
charges are pending, if that jurisdiction licenses bail
bondsmen;
(B) is authorized to engage the surety insurer as surety
on the bail bond pursuant to a valid general or special power of
attorney; and
(C) holds a valid license as an insurance broker or agent
in this State, and that the surety insurer is authorized by the
Insurance Commissioner of Maryland to write bail bonds in this
State.
Cross reference: Code, Criminal Procedure Article, § 5-203 and
Rule 16-805 (Appointment of Bail Bond Commissioner—Licensing and
Regulation of Persons Authorized to Write Bonds).
(e) Collateral Security
(1) Authorized Collateral
A defendant or surety required to give collateral
security may satisfy the requirement by:
(A) depositing with the person who takes the bond the
required amount in cash or certified check, or pledging
intangible property approved by the court; or
Cross reference: See Code, Criminal Procedure Article, §§ 5-203
and 5-205, permitting certain persons to post a cash bail or
cash bond when an order specifies that the bail or bond may be
posted only by the defendant.
41
(B) encumbering one or more parcels of real estate
situated in the State of Maryland, owned by the defendant or
surety in fee simple absolute, or as chattel real subject to
ground rent. No bail bond to be secured by real estate may be
taken unless (i) a Declaration of Trust of a specified parcel of
real estate, in the form set forth at the end of this Title as
Form 4-217.1, is executed before the person who takes the bond
and is filed with the bond, or (ii) the bond is secured by a
Deed of Trust to the State or its agent and the defendant or
surety furnishes a verified list of all encumbrances on each
parcel of real estate subject to the Deed of Trust in the form
required for listing encumbrances in a Declaration of Trust.
(2) Value
Collateral security shall be accepted only if the person
who takes the bail bond is satisfied that it is worth the
required amount.
(3) Additional or Different Collateral Security
Upon a finding that the collateral security originally
deposited, pledged, or encumbered is insufficient to ensure
collection of the penalty sum of the bond, the court, on motion
by the State or on its own initiative and after notice and
opportunity for hearing, may require additional or different
collateral security.
(f) Condition of Bail Bond
42
The condition of any bail bond taken pursuant to this
Rule shall be that the defendant personally appear as required
in any court in which the charges are pending, or in which a
charging document may be filed based on the same acts or
transactions, or to which the action may be transferred,
removed, or if from the District Court, appealed, and that the
bail bond shall continue in effect until discharged pursuant to
section (j) of this Rule.
(g) Form and Contents of Bond--Execution
Every pretrial bail bond taken shall be in the form of
the bail bond set forth at the end of this Title as Form 4-
217.2, and, except as provided in Code, Criminal Procedure
Article, § 5-214, shall be executed and acknowledged by the
defendant and any surety before the person who takes the bond.
(h) Voluntary Surrender of the Defendant by Surety
A surety on a bail bond who has custody of a defendant
may procure the discharge of the bail bond at any time before
forfeiture by:
(1) delivery of a copy of the bond and the amount of any
premium or fee received for the bond to the court in which the
charges are pending or to a commissioner in the county in which
the charges are pending who shall thereupon issue an order
committing the defendant to the custodian of the jail or
detention center; and
43
(2) delivery of the defendant and the commitment order to
the custodian of the jail or detention center, who shall
thereupon issue a receipt for the defendant to the surety.
Unless released on a new bond, the defendant shall be taken
forthwith before a judge of the court in which the charges are
pending.
On motion of the surety or any person who paid the premium or
fee, and after notice and opportunity to be heard, the court may
by order award to the surety an allowance for expenses in
locating and surrendering the defendant, and refund the balance
to the person who paid it.
(i) Forfeiture of Bond
(1) On Defendant's Failure to Appear--Issuance of Warrant
If a defendant fails to appear as required, the court
shall order forfeiture of the bail bond and issuance of a
warrant for the defendant's arrest and may set a new bond in the
action. The clerk shall promptly notify any surety on the
defendant's original bond, and the State's Attorney, of the
forfeiture of that bond and the issuance of the warrant.
Cross reference: Code, Criminal Procedure Article, § 5-211.
(2) On Defendant's Posting a Bond After Issuance of Warrant
If a new bond is set under subsection (i)(1) of this
Rule and the defendant posts the bond:
44
(A) a judicial officer shall mark the warrant satisfied;
and
(B) the court shall reschedule the hearing or trial.
(3) Striking Out Forfeiture for Cause
If the defendant or surety can show reasonable grounds
for the defendant's failure to appear, notwithstanding Rule 2-
535, the court shall (A) strike out the forfeiture in whole or
in part; and, (B) set aside any judgment entered thereon
pursuant to subsection (5)(A) of this section, and (C) order the
remission in whole or in part of the penalty sum paid pursuant
to subsection (4) of this section.
Cross reference: Code, Criminal Procedure Article, § 5-
208(b)(1) and (2) and Allegany Mut. Cas. Co. v. State, 234 Md.
278, 199 A.2d 201 (1964).
(4) Satisfaction of Forfeiture
Within 90 days from the date the defendant fails to
appear, which time the court may extend to 180 days upon good
cause shown, a surety shall satisfy any order of forfeiture,
either by producing the defendant in court or by paying the
penalty sum of the bond. If the defendant is produced within
such time by the State, the court shall require the surety to
pay the expenses of the State in producing the defendant and
shall treat the order of forfeiture satisfied with respect to
the remainder of the penalty sum.
(5) Enforcement of Forfeiture
45
If an order of forfeiture has not been stricken or
satisfied within 90 days after the defendant's failure to
appear, or within 180 days if the time has been extended, the
clerk shall forthwith:
(A) enter the order of forfeiture as a judgment in favor
of the governmental entity that is entitled by statute to
receive the forfeiture and against the defendant and surety, if
any, for the amount of the penalty sum of the bail bond, with
interest from the date of forfeiture and costs including any
costs of recording, less any amount that may have been deposited
as collateral security; and
(B) cause the judgment to be recorded and indexed among
the civil judgment records of the circuit court of the county;
and
(C) prepare, attest, and deliver or forward to any bail
bond commissioner appointed pursuant to Rule 16-805, to the
State's Attorney, to the Chief Clerk of the District Court, and
to the surety, if any, a true copy of the docket entries in the
cause, showing the entry and recording of the judgment against
the defendant and surety, if any.
Enforcement of the judgment shall be by the State's Attorney in
accordance with those provisions of the rules relating to the
enforcement of judgments.
(6) Subsequent Appearance of Defendant
46
When the defendant is produced in court after the period
allowed under subsection (4) of this section, the surety may
apply for the refund of any penalty sum paid in satisfaction of
the forfeiture less any expenses permitted by law. The court
shall strike out a forfeiture of bail or collateral and deduct
only the actual expense incurred for the defendant's arrest,
apprehension, or surrender provided that the surety paid the
forfeiture of bail or collateral during the period allowed for
the return of the defendant under subsection (4) of this
section.
(7) Where Defendant Incarcerated Outside This State
(A) If, within the period allowed under subsection (4) of
this section, the surety produces evidence and the court finds
that the defendant is incarcerated in a penal institution
outside this State and that the State's Attorney is unwilling to
issue a detainer and subsequently extradite the defendant, the
court shall strike out the forfeiture and shall return the bond
or collateral security to the surety.
(B) If, after the expiration of the period allowed under
subsection (4) of this section, but within 10 years from the
date the bond or collateral was posted, the surety produces
evidence and the court finds that the defendant is incarcerated
in a penal institution outside this State, that the State's
Attorney is unwilling to issue a detainer and subsequently
47
extradite the defendant, and that the surety agrees in writing
to defray the expense of returning the defendant to the
jurisdiction in accordance with Code, Criminal Procedure
Article, § 5-208(c), subject to subsection (C) of this section,
the court shall strike out the forfeiture and refund the
forfeited bail bond or collateral to the surety provided that
the surety paid the forfeiture of bail or collateral within the
time limits established under subsection (4) of this section.
(C) On motion of the surety, the court may refund a
forfeited bail bond or collateral that was not paid within the
time limits established under subsection (4) of this section if
the surety produces evidence that the defendant was incarcerated
when the judgment of forfeiture was entered, and the court
strikes out the judgment for fraud, mistake, or irregularity.
(j) Discharge of Bond--Refund of Collateral Security
(1) Discharge
The bail bond shall be discharged when:
(A) all charges to which the bail bond applies have been
stetted, unless the bond has been forfeited and 10 years have
elapsed since the bond or other security was posted; or
(B) all charges to which the bail bond applies have been
disposed of by a nolle prosequi, dismissal, acquittal, or
probation before judgment; or
48
(C) the defendant has been sentenced in the District Court
and no timely appeal has been taken, or in the circuit court
exercising original jurisdiction, or on appeal or transfer from
the District Court; or
(D) the court has revoked the bail bond pursuant to Rule
4-216.3 or the defendant has been convicted and denied bail
pending sentencing; or
(E) the defendant has been surrendered by the surety
pursuant to section (h) of this Rule.
Cross reference: See Code, Criminal Procedure Article, § 5-
208(d) relating to discharge of a bail bond when the charges are
stetted. See also Rule 4-349 pursuant to which the District
Court judge may deny release on bond pending appeal or may
impose different or greater conditions for release after
conviction than were imposed for the pretrial release of the
defendant pursuant to Rule 4-216, 4-216.1, 4-216.2, or 4-216.3.
(2) Refund of Collateral Security--Release of Lien
Upon the discharge of a bail bond and surrender of the
receipt, the clerk shall return any collateral security to the
person who deposited or pledged it and shall release any
Declaration of Trust that was taken.
Source: This Rule is derived from former Rule 722 and M.D.R.
722.
49
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 8 – APPELLATE REVIEW IN THE COURT OF APPEALS AND COURT OF
SPECIAL APPEALS
CHAPTER 200 – OBTAINING REVIEW IN COURT OF SPECIAL APPEALS
AMEND Rule 8-202 by correcting a cross reference after
section (a), as follows:
Rule 8-202. NOTICE OF APPEAL – TIMES FOR FILING
(a) Generally
Except as otherwise provided in this Rule or by law, the
notice of appeal shall be filed within 30 days after entry of
the judgment or order from which the appeal is taken. In this
Rule, “judgment” includes a verdict or decision of a circuit
court to which issues have been sent from an Orphans' Court.
Cross reference: Code, Courts Article, § 12-302(c)(3)(4).
. . .
50
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 9 – FAMILY LAW ACTIONS
CHAPTER 100 – ADOPTION; PRIVATE AGENCY GUARDIANSHIP
AMEND Rule 9-105 by deleting section (d) and by re-
lettering sections (e) through (g) as (d) through (f), as
follows:
Rule 9-105. SHOW CAUSE ORDER; DISABILITY OF A PARTY; OTHER
NOTICE
. . .
(d) Notice of Name Change
If the person to be adopted is an adult and the
petitioner desires to change the name of the person to be
adopted to a surname other than that of the petitioner, notice
of a proposed change of name shall also be given in the manner
provided in Rule 15-901.
. . .
(e)(d) Form of Show Cause Order
. . .
(f)(e) Form of Notice of Objection
. . .
(g)(f) Form of Notice for Service by Publication and Posting
. . .
51
Source: This Rule is in part derived from former Rule D74 and
is in part new.
52
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 9 – FAMILY LAW ACTIONS
CHAPTER 200 – DIVORCE, ANNULMENT, ALIMONY, CHILD SUPPORT, AND
CHILD CUSTODY
AMEND Rule 9-205 by modifying the tagline of section (a),
by making stylistic changes to section (a), by adding new
subsection (a)(2)(A) defining “abuse,” by adding new subsection
(a)(2)(B) defining “coercive control,” and by deleting a
reference to Code, Family Law Article, § 4-501 and adding a
reference to coercive control in subsection (b)(2), as follows:
Rule 9-205. MEDIATION OF CHILD CUSTODY AND VISITATION DISPUTES
(a) Scope of Rule Applicability; Definitions
(1) This Rule applies to any action or proceeding under this
Chapter in which the custody of or visitation with a minor child
is an issue, including:
(1)(A) an initial action to determine custody or
visitation;
(2)(B) an action to modify an existing order or judgment
as to custody or visitation; and
(3)(C) a petition for contempt by reason of non-compliance
with an order or judgment governing custody or visitation.
(2) In this Rule, the following definitions apply:
53
(A) “Abuse” has the meaning stated in Code, Family Law
Article, § 4-501.
(B) “Coercive control” means a pattern of emotional or
psychological manipulation, maltreatment, threat of force, or
intimidation used to compel an individual to act, or refrain
from acting, against the individual’s will.
(b) Duty of Court
(1) Promptly after an action subject to this Rule is at
issue, the court shall determine whether:
(A) mediation of the dispute as to custody or visitation
is appropriate and likely would be beneficial to the parties or
the child; and
(B) a mediator possessing the qualifications set forth in
section (c) of this Rule is available to mediate the dispute.
(2) If a party or a child represents to the court in good
faith that there is a genuine issue of abuse, as defined in
Code, Family Law Article, § 4-501, of the party or child or
coercive control of a party and that, as a result, mediation
would be inappropriate, the court may not order mediation.
(3) If the court concludes that mediation is appropriate and
likely to be beneficial to the parties or the child and that a
qualified mediator is available, it shall enter an order
requiring the parties to mediate the custody or visitation
dispute. The order may stay some or all further proceedings in
54
the action pending the mediation on terms and conditions set
forth in the order.
Cross reference: With respect to subsection (b)(2) of this
Rule, see Rule 1-341 and Rules 19-303.1 and 19-303.3 of the
Maryland Attorneys' Rules of Professional Conduct.
. . .
55
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 9 – FAMILY LAW ACTIONS
CHAPTER 200 – DIVORCE, ANNULMENT, ALIMONY, CHILD SUPPORT, AND
CHILD CUSTODY
AMEND Rule 9-205.3 by correcting references in subsections
(f)(2) and (f)(4), as follows:
Rule 9-205.3. CUSTODY AND VISITATION-RELATED ASSESSMENTS
. . .
(f) Description of Custody Evaluation
(1) Mandatory Elements
Subject to any protective order of the court, a custody
evaluation shall include:
(A) a review of the relevant court records pertaining to
the litigation;
(B) an interview of each party and any adult who performs
a caretaking role for the child or lives in a household with the
child;
(C) an interview of the child, unless the custody
evaluator determines and explains that by reason of age,
disability, or lack of maturity, the child lacks capacity to be
interviewed;
56
(D) a review of any relevant educational, medical, and
legal records pertaining to the child;
(E) if feasible, observations of the child with each
party, whenever possible in that party's household;
(F) contact with any high neutrality/low affiliation
collateral sources of information, as determined by the
assessor;
Committee note: “High neutrality/low affiliation” is a term of
art that refers to impartial, objective collateral sources of
information. For example, in a custody contest in which the
parties are taking opposing positions about whether the child
needs to continue taking a certain medication, the child’s
treating doctor would be a high neutrality/low affiliation
source, especially if he or she had dealt with both parties.
(G) screening for intimate partner violence;
(H) factual findings about the needs of the child and the
capacity of each party to meet the child's needs; and
(I) a custody and visitation recommendation based upon an
analysis of the facts found or, if such a recommendation cannot
be made, an explanation of why.
(2) Optional Elements — Generally
Subject to subsection (f)(3)(f)(4) of this Rule, at the
discretion of the custody evaluator, a custody evaluation also
may include:
(A) contact with collateral sources of information that
are not high neutrality/low affiliation;
(B) a review of additional records;
57
(C) employment verification;
(D) a mental health evaluation;
(E) consultation with other experts to develop information
that is beyond the scope of the evaluator's practice or area of
expertise; and
(F) an investigation into any other relevant information
about the child's needs.
(3) Elements of Specific Issue Evaluation
Subject to any protective order of the court, a specific
issue evaluation may include any of the elements listed in
subsections (f)(1)(A) through (G) and (f)(2) of this Rule. The
specific issue evaluation shall include fact-finding pertaining
to each issue identified by the court and, if requested by the
court, a recommendation as to each.
(4) Optional Elements Requiring Court Approval
The custody evaluator or specific issue evaluation
assessor may not include an optional element listed in
subsection (f)(2)(E), (F), or (G) (f)(2)(D), (E), or (F) if any
additional cost is to be assessed for the element unless, after
notice to the parties and an opportunity to object, the court
approved inclusion of the element.
. . .
58
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 – JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 100 – GENERAL PROVISIONS
AMEND Rule 11-112 by deleting references to a unit of the
State or local government; by replacing the phrase, “the unit
shall serve,” with the phrase, “the court shall issue”; by
requiring that a certain Multilingual Advisement Form be
attached to certain documents; by altering the Committee note to
refer to translation of certain documents into priority
languages; by altering the Committee note to state that the
Access to Justice Department does not translate case-specific
documents; by altering the Committee note to state that a
provision of the State Government Article applies to “certain
State agencies, departments, and programs in the Executive
Branch of government”; and by making stylistic changes, as
follows:
Rule 11-112. PAPERS IN A FOREIGN LANGUAGE
Whenever the court or a unit of the State or local
government has reason to believe that an individual required to
be served with a summons, subpoena, notice of hearing or court
conference, or other document that requires a decision, action,
or response by the individual, by reason of unfamiliarity with
59
the English language, may be unable to read and understand the
document, the court unit shall (1) serve issue the document in
English and (1) if the document is available in a language that
the court or unit reasonably believes the individual can
understand, issue the document in that language, or (2) if the
document is not available in a language the court reasonably
believes the individual can understand, attach a Multilingual
Advisement Form approved by the State Court Administrator. as
an attachment to the English version of the document, inform the
individual in a language the court or unit reasonably believes
the individual can understand that, if the individual, due to
unfamiliarity with the English language, is unable to read and
understand the document, upon request (A) a copy of the document
in a language the individual understands will be made available,
or (B) an individual fluent in the language the served
individual understands will be made available to translate the
document.
Committee note: The Access to Justice Department of the
Administrative Office of the Courts provides translation
services to the Maryland courts and can provide translations of
certain forms and materials into priority languages at the
court’s request. The Access to Justice Department does not
provide translation of case-specific documents. See Code, State
Government Article, § 10-1103 requiring certain State agencies,
departments, and programs in the Executive Branch of government,
including the Department of Human Services, Department of
Juvenile Services, and Attorney General’s Office, to provide
“the translation of vital documents ordinarily provided to the
public into any language spoken by any limited English
proficient population that constitutes 3% of the overall
60
population within the geographic area served by a local office
of a State program as measured by the United States Census.”
Source: This Rule is new.
61
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 200 - CHILD IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE
AMEND Rule 11-204 by requiring that a written request
pursuant to subsection (d)(4)(A) be made no later than the next
day after entry of the magistrate’s order, as follows:
Rule 11-204. SHELTER CARE
(a) Placement in Emergency Shelter Care
A local department may place a child in emergency shelter
care before a hearing in conformance with Code, Courts Article,
§ 3-815(b).
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-807 for the
authority of a magistrate to order shelter care.
(b) Petition for Continued Shelter Care
Unless a child placed in emergency shelter care pursuant
to section (a) of this Rule has been released, the local
department shall:
(1) give to the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian
written notice of the emergency shelter care; and
(2) on the next day file a CINA petition with a request for
continued shelter care or a separate petition requesting
continued shelter care including the allegations supporting the
request for continued shelter care.
62
(c) Hearing
(1) Timing
The court shall hold a hearing on a request for
continued shelter care on the same day that the petition is
filed. The hearing may be postponed or continued by the court
for good cause shown, but it may not be postponed for more than
eight days following the commencement of the respondent’s
emergency shelter care.
(2) Notice
The petitioner shall give reasonable notice of the time,
place, and purpose of the hearing to the child’s parent,
guardian, and custodian, and to the child’s other relatives who
may be potential placement resources, if they can be located.
(3) Presence
A respondent shall be present for the hearing, except
that the attorney for the respondent may waive the presence of
that respondent.
Committee note: If the hearing is conducted by remote
electronic means, “present” or “presence” means the ability (1)
to observe the proceeding, (2) to communicate with other
participants when such communication is permitted, and (3) to be
observed by other participants when communicating.
(d) Order for Continued Shelter Care
(1) Limitation on Continued Shelter Care
The court may continue shelter care prior to
adjudication if the court has reasonable grounds to find the
63
criteria in Code, Courts Article, § 3-815(d) have been
satisfied.
(2) Duration
The court may not order continued shelter care for more
than 30 days, except that it may extend the shelter care for an
additional period not exceeding 30 days if it finds, by a
preponderance of the evidence, after a hearing held as part of
an adjudicatory hearing, that continued shelter care is needed
to provide for the safety of the child.
(3) Findings and Order
If the court orders continued shelter care, the court
shall make written findings as to the grounds for removal and
the efforts that were made to avoid the need for removal as
required by Code, Courts Article, § 3-815(d) and (e) and § 3-
816.1. If the hearing was conducted by a magistrate, the
magistrate also shall make written findings, conclusions, and
recommendations. If a magistrate declines to order continued
shelter care, the magistrate shall prepare written findings in
support of that determination and enter an order denying
continued shelter care.
(4) Review of Magistrate’s Shelter Care Determination
(A) Request
If a hearing under this Rule was conducted by a
magistrate, a party may request immediate review of an order
64
orally at the hearing or in writing no later than the next day
after entry of the magistrate’s order pursuant to subsection
(d)(3) of this Rule.
(B) Review by Judge
Not later than the next day following a request for
immediate review, a judge of the court shall review the file,
any exhibits, and the magistrate’s findings, conclusions, and
recommendations and shall afford the parties an opportunity for
a hearing on the record or de novo review.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rule 11-112
(2021) and is in part new.
65
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 200 - CHILD IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE
AMEND Rule 11-219 by deleting a certain statutory reference
from section (b), by adding new subsection (e)(2)(D) pertaining
to a permanency plan that is another planned living arrangement,
by adding new subsection (e)(2)(E) pertaining to placement in a
qualified residential treatment program, and by making stylistic
changes, as follows:
Rule 11-219. POST DISPOSITION REVIEW AND MODIFICATION;
PERMANENCY PLANS
(a) Status Review
(1) Generally
Except as provided in subsection (a)(2) of this Rule,
the court shall conduct a hearing to review the status of a
child under its jurisdiction within six months after the filing
of the first petition under this subtitle and at least every six
months thereafter.
(2) Qualified Residential Treatment Program
If a child has been placed in a qualified residential
treatment program, the court shall conduct a hearing to review
66
the status of the child and determine the appropriateness of the
placement within 60 days after the child enters the placement.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-816.2 regarding
considerations at a review hearing under this section.
(b) Review of Custody and Guardianship
After granting custody or guardianship of a child to an
individual pursuant to Code, Courts Article, § 3-819.2, the
court may order such further reviews as it determines to be in
the child’s best interests, consistent with Code, Courts
Article, §3-823 (h).
(c) Review of Commitment to Certain Facilities
(1) In General
If a child has been committed for inpatient care and
treatment in a psychiatric facility or facility for
developmentally disabled individuals pursuant to Code, Courts
Article, § 3-819(h) or (i), the court, on request of any party,
the child’s custodian, or the facility, shall hold a hearing
after the first six months of the commitment and at six month
intervals thereafter to determine whether the standards
specified in those sections of the Code continue to exist. The
court may hold a hearing at any other time for that purpose.
(2) Other Hearings Based on Individualized Treatment Plans
If an individualized treatment plan developed under
Code, Health-General Article, § 7-1006 or § 10-706 recommends
67
that a child no longer meets the requirements of Code, Courts
Article, § 3-819(h) or (i), as applicable, the court shall hold
a hearing to review the commitment order.
(d) Removal of Child from Court-Ordered Placement
(1) Emergency Hearing
(A) If, after or as part of a CINA disposition, the court
orders a specific placement of the child and the local
department, acting pursuant to Code, Courts Article, § 3-820(a),
removes the child from that placement, gives the notice required
by § 3-820(b), and files a motion to authorize a new placement,
the court shall hold an emergency review hearing on the motion
not later than the next day after the motion is filed.
(B) All parties shall be given reasonable notice of the
hearing.
(C) The court may ratify the emergency removal only upon
such evidence as would suffice under Code, Courts Article, § 3-
815(d) to order shelter care.
(2) Hearing on the Merits
Unless all parties agree to the order entered following
an emergency hearing, the court, at that hearing, shall schedule
a full review hearing on the merits of the local department’s
action to be held within 30 days after the date of removal or,
if agreed to by the parties or for good cause shown, at a later
date.
68
(e) Permanency Plan Hearings
(1) Determination of Permanency Plan
If the court has ordered an out-of-home placement, as
defined in Code, Family Law Article, § 5-501(i), it shall,
within the times set forth in Code, Courts Article, § 3-823(b)
or (c), hold a hearing to determine a permanency plan for the
child. At that hearing, the court shall determine the child’s
permanency plan in accordance with Code, Courts Article, § 3-
823(e), (f), and (g) and make findings in accordance with Code,
Courts Article, § 3-816.2(a)(2).
(2) Periodic Reviews
(A) Once a permanency plan has been approved pursuant to
subsection (e)(1) of this Rule, the court shall hold periodic
hearings at the times set forth in Code, Courts Article, § 3-
823(h)(1) to review the current plan.
Committee note: Federal law requires the court to continue to
conduct a hearing to review the status of each child under its
jurisdiction at least every six months. At that hearing, the
court must make the findings required by Code, Courts Article, §
3-816.2(a)(2). See 42 U.S.C. § 675(5)(B).
(B) Notice of the hearing and an opportunity to be heard
shall be provided to the parties and other individuals as
required by Code, Courts Article, § 3-816.3.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-816.3 for notice
to the child’s foster parent, preadoptive parent, or caregiver.
69
(C) At the review hearing, the court shall consider any
written report of a local out-of-home care review board required
under Code, Family Law Article, § 5-545 and make the
determinations and take the actions required by Code, Courts
Article, § 3-823(h)(2) and make the findings required by Code,
Courts Article, § 3-816.2(a)(2).
(D) If the permanency plan is another planned permanent
living arrangement, at the review hearing the court shall make
the determinations and take the actions required by Code, Courts
Article, § 3-823(h)(3).
(E) For a child placed in a qualified residential
treatment program, at the review hearing the court shall make
the determinations and take the actions required by Code, Courts
Article, § 3-823(h)(4).
(D)(F) At least every 12 months, the court, at a review
hearing, shall consult on the record with the child, in an age-
appropriate manner. If the court determines that the child is
medically fragile or that it would be detrimental to the child’s
physical or mental health to be transported to the place where
the consultation would occur, the consultation may occur
remotely pursuant to Code, Courts Article, § 3-823(j)(3) and
Rules 2-801 through 2-806.
(3) Reasonable Efforts Finding
70
At each hearing under this section, the court shall make
a finding as required by Code, Courts Article, § 3-816.1.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rule 11-115 c
(2021) and is in part new.
71
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 – JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 200 – CHILD IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE
AMEND Rule 11-220 by updating a statutory reference in
subsection (a)(2), as follows:
Rule 11-220. TERMINATION OF PROCEEDING
(a) Termination of Jurisdiction
(1) Generally
Except as provided in subsection (a)(2), upon
termination of the court’s jurisdiction over the respondent
child, the court shall enter a final order terminating the
proceeding.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-804(b),
providing that jurisdiction over a CINA continues until the
child is age 21 years, unless the court terminates the case
sooner.
(2) Limited Retention of Jurisdiction
If the court enters an order directing the provision of
services to a child under Code, Courts Article, § 3-819(c)(3) or
§3-823 (h)(2)(vii) § 3-823(h)(2)(viii), the court retains
jurisdiction for the limited purpose of enforcement,
modification, or termination of the order.
72
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, §§ 3-804(d) and 3-
823(k) and In re Adoption/Guardianship Dustin R., 445 Md. 536
(2015) for continuing jurisdiction over a CINA.
(b) Prior to Termination of Jurisdiction
Upon a finding of good cause, the court may enter a final
order terminating the proceeding prior to expiration of the
court’s jurisdiction by operation of law (1) on the court’s own
initiative, (2) on motion of a party, or (3) on the
recommendation of an appropriate governmental agency exercising
supervision over the respondent.
Cross reference: See In re Emileigh F., 355 Md. 198 (1999) and
In re Joseph N., 407 Md. 278 (2009) precluding the court from
terminating the proceeding while an appeal from its decision is
pending.
Source: This Rule is derived from former Rule 11-120 (2021).
73
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 – DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-404 by adding a statute to the cross
reference following section (a), as follows:
Rule 11-404. RIGHT TO ATTORNEY
(a) Generally
A party is entitled to be represented by an attorney at
every stage of all proceedings under this Chapter in accordance
with Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-20.
Cross reference: Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-20 contains
provisions governing the waiver of representation, the court’s
duties when a child appears without an attorney, and
representation by the Public Defender. See also Code, Courts
Article, § 3-8A-14.2 for the requirement that a juvenile consult
with an attorney retained by the parent, guardian, or custodian
of the child or provided by the Office of the Public Defender
prior to a custodial interrogation and Code, Courts Article, §
3-8A-32 for special independent representation of a child when
the court determines that is necessary.
(b) Striking of Attorney’s Appearance
(1) By Motion
An attorney wishing to withdraw an appearance shall file
a motion to withdraw. If the attorney’s client is a child who
is entitled to representation at State expense, the court shall
deny the motion unless another attorney has entered an
appearance.
74
(2) Automatic Termination of Appearance
When no appeal has been taken from a final order of
termination of the proceeding pursuant to Rule 11-425, the
appearance of an attorney is automatically terminated 30 days
after the order of termination of the proceeding is entered.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-20 concerning
the right to the assistance of counsel.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rule 11-106
(2021) and is in part new.
75
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 - DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-405 by adding a statutory reference to
section (b), as follows:
Rule 11-405. TAKING CHILD INTO CUSTODY
(a) Authority
A child may be taken into custody in accordance with
Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-14(a).
(b) Notice; Release; Detention
A law enforcement officer who takes a child into custody
shall comply with the requirements of Code, Courts Article, §§
3-8A-14(b) and 3-8A-14.2.
(c) Failure to Bring Child before Court
Subject to Rule 11-412 (c), if a parent, guardian, or
custodian fails to bring a child before the court when directed
by the court to do so, the court may issue a writ of attachment
directing that the child be taken into custody and brought
before the court. The court may proceed against the parent,
guardian, or custodian for contempt pursuant to the Rules in
Title 15, Chapter 200.
76
Committee note: This section does not preclude the court from
the issuance of a writ of attachment for a parent, guardian, or
custodian who fails to appear when ordered to do so.
Cross reference: See Title 15, Chapter 200 of these Rules
concerning civil and criminal contempt.
Source: This Rule is new.
77
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 - DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-406 by updating a cross reference following
section (a); by updating a statutory reference in subsection
(c)(2); by adding new subsection (c)(4)(A) pertaining to a
petition for continued detention, community detention, or
shelter care; by adding new subsection (c)(4)(B) pertaining to a
petition for continued detention; by adding new subsections
(c)(4)(B)(i) and (c)(4)(B)(ii) containing the current provisions
of subsection (c)(4); by adding new subsection (c)(4)(B)(iii)
pertaining to statutory provisions governing detention; by
adding new subsection (c)(4)(B)(iv) pertaining to a risk scoring
instrument; by adding new subsection (c)(4)(C) pertaining to a
petition for continued shelter care; by updating a cross
reference following section (c); by adding a sentence to
subsection (e)(1)(A) pertaining to statutory provisions
governing detention; by updating a statutory reference in
subsection (e)(2); by adding new section (f) governing
requirements when a child is in detention; by adding a cross
reference following section (f); by re-lettering current section
(f) as section (g); and by making stylistic changes, as follows:
78
Rule 11-406. DETENTION; COMMUNITY DETENTION; SHELTER CARE
(a) Placement in Detention, Community Detention, or Shelter
Care
(1) Who May Authorize
Only the court or an intake officer may authorize
detention, community detention, or shelter care for a child
alleged to be a delinquent child.
(2) Limitation on Place of Detention
A child alleged to be a delinquent child may not be
detained in a jail or other facility for the detention of
adults.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(a) and
(h)(g).
(b) Emergency Placement Prior to Hearing
(1) Emergency Detention
A child taken into custody may be placed in emergency
detention prior to a hearing under the conditions set forth in
Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(b).
(2) Emergency Shelter Care
A child taken into custody may be placed in emergency
shelter care prior to a hearing under the conditions set forth
in Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(c).
(3) Emergency Community Detention
79
A child may be placed in emergency community detention
prior to a hearing under the conditions set forth in Code,
Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(b) or (c).
(c) Continued Detention, Community Detention, or Shelter Care
(1) Who May Authorize
Only a judge or a magistrate may order continued
detention, community detention, or shelter care.
(2) Basis, Conditions, and Limitations
Continued detention, community detention, and shelter
care may be ordered subject to the conditions and limitations
set forth in Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(d) through (g)(f).
(3) Requirement of Petition
Unless a child placed in emergency detention, community
detention, or shelter care has been released, an intake officer,
on or before the next day after the placement, shall file a
petition to authorize continued detention, community detention,
or shelter care.
(4) Contents of Petition
(A) Generally
A petition to authorize continued detention, community
detention, or shelter care shall state include:
(A) The the allegations supporting the relief sought.;
(B) Detention
80
For If continued detention based on allegations that
the juvenile has committed a delinquent act, is sought, the
petitioner shall:
(i) Sufficient state sufficient details of the alleged
offense delinquent act for the court to make a determination as
to whether there is probable cause to believe that the juvenile
committed the act, which shall include the allegations and;
(ii) state the reasons for the emergency detention; and
(iii) state sufficient information for the court to make
a determination that the detention is permitted by Code, Courts
Article, §§ 3-8A-15(b)(3) and 3-8A-19.7; and
(iv) attach to the petition a copy of the results of a
risk scoring instrument as defined by Code, Courts Article, § 3-
8A-15(b)(2).
(C) Shelter Care
For If continued shelter care, a statement that is
sought, the petition shall state:
(i) Continuation that continuation of the child in the
child’s home is contrary to the welfare of the child and removal
of the child from the child’s home is reasonable under the
circumstances due to an alleged emergency situation and in order
to provide for the safety of the child; or
(ii) Reasonable that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts
have been made to prevent or eliminate the need for removal from
81
the child’s home and, as appropriate, reasonable efforts are
being made to return the child to the child’s home.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(f)(e)
concerning the grounds for continued detention or community
detention and Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(g)(f) concerning
the grounds for continued shelter care.
(d) Notice
The petitioner shall give reasonable notice, oral or
written, of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing to the
child and to the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian, if that
person can be found.
(e) Grounds for Continued Detention, Community Detention, or
Shelter Care
(1) Detention or Community Detention
(A) Generally
Detention or community detention may not be continued
unless, in an order entered at or after a hearing, the court
finds that (i) there was probable cause for the detention or
community detention and (ii) there are reasonable grounds to
find either (a) that continued detention or community detention
is required to protect the child or others or (b) that the child
is likely to leave the jurisdiction of the court. For a child
in detention, the court also shall make a finding that the
detention is permitted by Code, Courts Article, §§ 3-8A-15(b)(3)
and 3-8A-19.7.
82
(B) Release on Conditions
If the time requirements of Code, Courts Article, § 3-
8A-15(d)(6)(i) are not met, the court shall release the child
from detention or community detention on such terms and
conditions as the court deems appropriate for the protection of
the child and the safety of the community.
(2) Shelter Care
Shelter care may not be continued unless, in an order
entered at or after a hearing, the court makes the findings set
forth in Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(g)(f).
(f) Child in Detention – Required Actions
(1) Plan for Release
Within 10 days after a court orders detention of a
child, the Department of Juvenile Services shall submit a plan
to the court for releasing the child into the community.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(l).
(2) Review Hearing
Within 14 days after the court orders detention of a
child, and every 14 days thereafter, the Department of Juvenile
Services shall appear at a hearing before the court with the
child to explain the reasons for continued detention.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15(k).
(f)(g) Review of Magistrate’s Continued Detention, Community
Detention, or Shelter Care Determination
83
(1) Request
If a hearing under this Rule was conducted by a
magistrate, a party may request immediate review of an order
orally at the hearing or in writing.
(2) Review by Judge
Not later than the next day following a request for
immediate review, a judge of the court shall review the file,
any exhibits, and the magistrate’s findings and order and shall
afford the parties an opportunity for a hearing on the record or
de novo review.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-04 and § 3-
807(d).
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rule 11-112
(2021) and is in part new.
84
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 - DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-419 by adding a cross reference following
subsection (b)(4), as follows:
Rule 11-419. MOTIONS
(a) Generally
(1) Content
A motion filed pursuant to this Rule shall (A) be in
writing, unless the court otherwise directs, (B) state the
grounds upon which it is made, and (C) set forth the relief
sought. A motion requesting suppression of evidence or a motion
alleging an illegal source of information as the basis for
probable cause shall be supported by precise and specific
factual averments. Every motion shall contain or be accompanied
by a statement of points and citation of authorities.
(2) Response
A response, if made, shall be filed within 10 days after
service of the motion and contain or be accompanied by a
statement of points and citation of authorities.
(3) Determination
85
Motions filed pursuant to this Rule shall be determined
on the day of trial but prior to trial, except that the court
may defer until after trial its determination of a motion to
dismiss for failure to obtain a speedy trial. If factual issues
are involved in determining the motion, the court shall state
its findings on the record.
(b) Mandatory Motions - Generally
In a delinquency proceeding, the following matters shall
be raised by motion in conformity with this Rule and if not so
raised are waived unless the court, for good cause shown, orders
otherwise:
(1) A defect in the institution of the prosecution;
(2) A defect in the charging document other than its failure
to show jurisdiction in the court or its failure to charge an
offense;
(3) An unlawful search, seizure, interception of wire or
oral communication, or pretrial identification;
(4) An unlawfully obtained admission, statement, or
confession; and
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-14.2
regarding admissibility of a statement made by a child during a
custodial interrogation.
(5) A request for a joint trial or separate trials of
respondents or offenses.
(c) Time for Filing
86
(1) Mandatory Motions
A motion under section (b) of this Rule shall be filed
no later than five business days before the first scheduled
adjudicatory hearing, unless the court, for good cause shown,
orders otherwise.
(2) Other Motions
A motion asserting failure of the charging document to
show jurisdiction in the court or to charge an offense may be
raised and determined at any time. Any other defense,
objection, or request capable of determination before trial
without trial of the general issue shall be raised by motion
filed at any time before trial.
Source: This Rule is new.
87
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 - DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
ADD new Rule 11-420.1, as follows:
Rule 11-420.1. INFORMAL ADJUSTMENT
(a) Generally
At any time prior to the commencement of an adjudicatory
hearing, with the consent of the State’s Attorney, the child,
and the child’s attorney, the court may hold proceedings in
abeyance and order the matter referred to the Department of
Juvenile Services for informal adjustment.
Committee note: Informal adjustment is a process by which the
Department of Juvenile Services attempts to resolve a complaint
made pursuant to Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-10(a) without
court involvement. See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-10(n)
authorizing the court to refer a matter for informal adjustment
and Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-10(e) and (f) pertaining to the
informal adjustment process.
(b) Report
No later than 30 days following an order referring a
matter for informal adjustment, the Department of Juvenile
Services shall provide to the court and the parties a status
report regarding the progress of the child in the informal
adjustment process.
(c) Disposition
88
At the conclusion of the informal adjustment process, the
Department of Juvenile Services shall inform the court and the
parties in writing or on the record whether the child
successfully completed the process. If the child successfully
completed the informal adjustment process, the court shall
dismiss the delinquency petition. If the child did not
successfully complete the informal adjustment process, the court
shall resume the delinquency proceedings.
Source: This Rule is new.
89
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 - DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-422 by adding a statutory reference to
subsections (d)(1) and (d)(2), by adding a cross reference
following section (d), and by making stylistic changes, as
follows:
Rule 11-422. DISPOSITION HEARING AND ORDER
(a) Generally
Upon a finding that the allegations of the delinquency
petition that the child committed one or more delinquent acts or
citation have been proven beyond a reasonable doubt, the court
shall hold a separate disposition hearing, unless such hearing
is waived in writing by all of the parties.
(b) Time for Hearing
(1) Citation
In a citation proceeding, the disposition hearing shall
be held on the same day as the adjudicatory hearing unless the
court, for good cause, orders otherwise.
(2) Delinquency Petition
In a delinquency petition proceeding, the disposition
hearing may be held on the same day as the adjudicatory hearing
90
if notice of the disposition hearing is waived on the record by
all parties.
(3) If Not Held on Same Day
(A) If the disposition hearing is not held on the same day
as the adjudicatory hearing and the respondent is not in
detention or community detention, the disposition hearing shall
be held not later than 30 days after the conclusion of the
adjudicatory hearing.
(B) If the respondent is in detention or community
detention, the disposition hearing shall be held no later than
14 days after the conclusion of the adjudicatory hearing, unless
the detention is extended in conformance with Code, Courts
Article, § 3-8A-15(d)(6).
(c) Priorities in Disposition
The priorities in making a disposition shall be
consistent with the purposes set forth in Code, Courts Article,
§ 3-8A-02.
(d) Permitted Dispositions - Delinquency Petition
(1) Generally
In a proceeding based on a delinquency petition, the
court may enter a disposition authorized by Code, Courts
Article, § 3-8A-19(d), (f), (g), (h), (i), or (j), subject to
the conditions and limitations set forth in those sections and
91
in Code, Courts Article, §§ 3-8A-19.6, 3-8A-22, 3-8A-24, and 3-
8A-35.
Cross reference: Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-19(d) addresses
the court’s disposition generally. Subsection (f) of that
section addresses the guardian appointed under the section.
Subsection (g) of that section addresses placement of a child in
an emergency facility on an emergency basis under Code, Health-
General Article, Title 10, Subtitle 6, Part IV. Subsections (h)
and (i) of the that section address commitment of a child to the
custody of the State Department of Health for inpatient care and
treatment in a State mental hospital or State mental retardation
facility, respectively. Subsection (j) of that section
addresses the requirement that a commitment order issued under
either subsection (h) or (i) must require the State Department
of Health to file certain progress reports.
(2) Probation with Stay of Delinquency Finding
In addition to the dispositions permitted in subsection
(d)(1) of this section Rule, the court may, subject to Code,
Courts Article, § 3-8A-19.6, enter a disposition of probation
with stay of delinquency finding, which is a status created by a
court order in which the court, with the consent of the
respondent, places the respondent in a probationary status with
appropriate conditions after the court has made a finding that
the respondent committed a delinquent act, but without making a
finding that the respondent is a delinquent child.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-19.6 for
limitations on the term of probation that may be imposed by the
court.
(e) Permitted Disposition - Citation
In a proceeding based on a citation, the court may enter
a disposition authorized by Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-19(e),
92
subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in that
section.
(f) Procedure
(1) Disposition Hearing Conducted by Judge
If a judge conducts the disposition hearing, the judge
shall enter a written disposition order and shall either file or
announce and dictate into the record (A) a statement of reasons
for any order that includes placement of the respondent outside
the respondent’s home, and (B) a statement of each condition for
any probation.
(2) Disposition Hearing Conducted by Magistrate
If a magistrate conducts the disposition hearing, the
proceeding shall be in accordance with Rule 11-103. A
commitment recommended by a magistrate is subject to approval by
the court in accordance with Rule 11-103 but may be implemented
in advance of court approval, subject to a stay if requested by
a party, pending a hearing on exceptions.
Cross reference: See Rule 11-101 (b) concerning application of
the Rules in Title 5 to a disposition hearing.
(g) Restitution
(1) Generally
As part of a disposition, the court may order that the
respondent, the respondent’s parents, or both pay restitution to
a victim subject to the conditions and limitations as set forth
93
in Code, Criminal Procedure Article, Title 11, Subtitle 6.
Restitution may not be ordered unless:
(A) the individual ordered to pay is given reasonable
notice that restitution is being sought and of the amount that
is being requested;
(B) the individual is given a fair opportunity to defend
against the request;
(C) sufficient evidence is admitted to prove: (i) the
amount of loss or expense incurred for which restitution is
allowed and (ii) that such loss or expense was the direct result
of the respondent’s delinquent act; and
(D) sufficient evidence is admitted of the individual’s
ability to comply with the restitution order.
Cross reference: Under Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-28 the
court may enter restitution against the child’s parent, the
child, or both, as provided by Code, Criminal Procedure Article,
Title 11, Subtitle 6. That subtitle sets out the process for
restitution orders. See also In re Ramont K., 305 Md. 482
(1986) and cases cited therein.
(2) Evidence; Burden of Proof
In a hearing to determine whether restitution should be
ordered, a written statement or bill for medical, dental,
hospital, counseling, funeral, or burial expenses is sufficient
evidence of the amount, fairness, and reasonableness of the
charges and the necessity for the services or materials
provided. An individual who challenges the fairness or
94
reasonableness of the charges or necessity for the services or
materials has the burden of proving that the amount is not fair
and reasonable.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rule 11-115
(2021) and is in part new.
95
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 - DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-423 by recaptioning section (a); by deleting
the caption to subsection (a)(1); by deleting current section
(b); by adding new section (b); by renumbering subsections
(a)(2) though (a)(4) as (b)(1) though (b)(3), respectively; by
recaptioning subsection (a)(5) as section (c); and by making
stylistic changes, as follows:
Rule 11-423. REVISORY POWER; POST-DISPOSITION HEARINGS
(a) Revisory Power Generally
(1) Authority
The court may modify or vacate an order if the court
finds that action to be in the best interest of the respondent
or the public.
(b) On Motion, Own Initiative, or Recommendation
(2)(1) On Motion
The court may exercise its authority under subsection
(a)(1) of this Rule on motion of any party. A motion shall
state with particularity the grounds on which the relief is
requested. The court may grant or deny the relief, in whole or
in part, without a hearing.
96
(3)(2) Own Initiative
The court may exercise its authority under subsection
(a)(1) of this Rule on its own initiative. If it proposes to do
so, the court shall notify the parties of its intent and inform
them of the right to respond and request a hearing within 10
days. The court may not modify or vacate an order earlier than
10 days after the issuance of the notice. If a timely request
for a hearing is made, the court shall conduct a hearing.
(4)(3) On Recommendation
The court may exercise its authority under subsection
(a)(1) of this Rule on written recommendation to the court by
the appropriate governmental agency exercising supervision or
custody of the respondent. The governmental agency making the
recommendation shall (A) notify the parties of the
recommendation and provide a copy of the recommendation to the
parties, (B) inform the parties of the right to respond and
request a hearing within 10 days from the date the notice was
sent, and (C) provide a copy of the notice and recommendation to
the court, accompanied by a statement of the date that notice
was sent. A response or request for a hearing shall be filed
with the clerk. The court may not act on the recommendation
earlier than 10 days from the date that notice is issued, unless
the parties consent in writing to the entry of an order
97
implementing the recommendation. If a timely request for a
hearing is made, the court shall conduct a hearing.
Committee note: This Rule is not intended to preclude a
governmental agency from making a recommendation in writing in
advance of a scheduled hearing or on the record in a court
proceeding.
(5)(c) Commitment to Maryland Department of Health
If the order sought to be modified or vacated committed
the respondent to the Department of Health pursuant to Code,
Courts Article, § 3-8A-19(h), (i), or (j), the court shall
proceed in accordance with those sections.
Cross reference: Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-19(h) addresses
the commitment of a child to the custody of the Department of
Health for inpatient care and treatment in a State mental
hospital. Subsection (i) of that statute addresses commitment
of a child to the custody of the Department of Health for
inpatient care and treatment in a State mental retardation
facility. Subsection (j) of that statute addresses the
requirement that a commitment order issued under either
subsection (i) or (j) must require the Department of Health to
file certain progress reports.
(b) Child in Detention
If a child remains in a detention facility for the act
for which the child has been adjudicated delinquent for more
than 25 days after the court has made a disposition pursuant to
Code, Courts Article, §3-8A-19, (1) the court shall conduct a
hearing on the first available court date after the 25th day and
(2) the Department of Juvenile Services shall appear with the
child to explain the reasons for the continued detention. A
98
hearing shall be conducted every 25 days thereafter as long as
the child remains in a facility used for detention.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rule 11-116
(2021) and is in part new.
99
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 - JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 400 - DELINQUENCY AND CITATION PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-424 by amending section (a) to apply to
proceedings concerning alleged violations of probation, by
deleting a provision in section (c) related to the conduct of
hearings, and by adding new section (d) pertaining to extension
of probation, as follows:
Rule 11-424. VIOLATION OF PROBATION
(a) How Initiated
Proceedings for revocation concerning an alleged
violation of probation may be initiated by the court on its own
initiative or by motion. A motion shall state each condition of
probation that the respondent is alleged to have violated, the
nature of the violation, and the requested relief.
(b) Show Cause Order
The court shall enter an order directing the respondent
to show cause why the relief should not be granted and setting a
time and date for a hearing. The clerk shall cause a copy of
the motion, if any, and the show cause order to be served on the
parties. If the show cause order is issued on the court’s
initiative, the order shall state each condition of probation
100
that the respondent is alleged to have violated and the nature
of the violation.
(c) Hearing
The court shall hold a hearing to determine whether a
violation has occurred and, if so, whether the probation should
be revoked or modified. The court may conduct the hearing in an
informal manner. The respondent shall be given the opportunity
to admit or deny the alleged violations, to testify, to present
witnesses, and to cross-examine the witnesses testifying against
the respondent. If the respondent is found to be in violation
of any condition of probation, the court shall (1) specify the
condition violated and (2) afford the respondent the
opportunity, personally and through counsel, to make a statement
and to present information in support of or in opposition to any
modification of the existing order.
(d) Extension of Probation
If the respondent is found to be in violation of a
condition of probation, the court may extend the probation as
permitted by Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-19.6.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from Rule 4-347 and former
Rule 11-116 (2021) and is in part new.
101
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 11 – JUVENILE CAUSES
CHAPTER 500 – OTHER PROCEEDINGS
AMEND Rule 11-502 by adding a statement permitting
referral for informal adjustment to subsection (q)(1)(A) and
by altering a reference to Rule 11-423 in section (t), as
follows:
Rule 11-502. CHILD IN NEED OF SUPERVISION
(a) Applicability
This Rule governs child in need of supervision
proceedings conducted pursuant to Code, Courts Article, Title
3, Subtitle 8A.
(b) Definitions
(1) The definitions stated in Code, Courts Article, § 3-
8A-01 apply to this Rule, to the extent relevant.
(2) “CINS petition” means the pleading filed with the court
under Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-13 alleging that a child is
in need of supervision.
(c) Confidentiality of Records
The confidentiality provisions stated in Code, Courts
Article, § 3-8A-27 and Title 16, Chapter 900 of the Maryland
Rules apply to court records pertaining to a child who is or
102
was the subject of a proceeding under this Rule.
(d) Attorney
Rule 11-404 applies with respect to the right to
representation by an attorney at a proceeding under this
Rule.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-20(a).
(e) Taking Child into Custody
Rule 11-405 applies with respect to taking a child into
custody, except that a child alleged to be in need of
supervision may not be placed in detention or community
detention.
(f) Shelter Care
A child alleged to be in need of supervision may be
placed in shelter care in accordance with the applicable
provisions of Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-15 and Rule 11-
406.
(g) Emergency Medical Treatment
The court may order emergency medical, dental, or
surgical treatment for a child alleged to be in need of
supervision in conformance with Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-
21 and Rule 11-417.
(h) CINS Petition
(1) Who May File
A CINS petition may be filed only by an intake officer.
103
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-13(b).
(2) Where Filed
The CINS petition shall be filed in the county where the
child resides.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-08(a).
(3) When Filed
The CINS petition shall be filed within the applicable
time limits set forth in Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-10.
Committee note: For administrative proceedings and requirements
prior to the filing of a CINS petition, see Code, Courts
Article, §§ 3-8A-10 and 3-8A-13. A court may dismiss a petition
for failure to comply with the requirements of § 3-8A-10 only if
the child demonstrates actual prejudice. See also In re Keith
G., 325 Md. 538 (1992).
(4) Form and Content
The CINS petition shall be captioned “In the Matter of
. . . . . . .” and shall state:
(A) the name and address of the petitioner and the basis
of the petitioner’s authority to file the petition;
(B) the child’s name, address, and date of birth, and the
name and address of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
(C) that the child is alleged to be in need of
supervision;
(D) in clear, simple, and concise language but with
particularity, the facts which constitute the alleged need for
supervision, including the date of the alleged act(s) and, as
104
applicable, any law(s) allegedly violated by the child;
(E) the name of each witness, known at the time the
petition is filed, whom the petitioner intends to call to
testify in support of the petition; and
(F) whether the child is in shelter care and, if so, (i)
when that placement commenced, (ii) whether the child’s parent,
guardian, or custodian has been notified, and (iii) whether the
petitioner is seeking continued shelter care.
(5) Copies
The intake officer shall file with the clerk a
sufficient number of copies of the CINS petition to provide for
service on the parties.
(i) Summons; Service
Unless the court orders otherwise, the clerk, upon the
filing of the CINS petition, shall promptly issue a summons,
substantially in the form approved by the State Court
Administrator and posted on the Judiciary website, for each
party other than the petitioner. The summons, together with a
copy of the CINS petition, shall be served in accordance with
Rule 11-107 and shall be returnable as provided in Rule 2-126.
(j) Subpoenas
The clerk shall issue a subpoena for each witness
requested by a party pursuant to Rule 11-105.
(k) Initial Appearance Hearing
105
The court may hold an initial hearing to ensure service
and provide notice of the right to counsel in accordance with
Rule 11-412.
(l) Response to CINS Petition; Admission
A party served with a CINS petition under this Rule may
file a response in conformance with Rule 11-413.
(m) Amendments
A petition, a motion, or any other paper filed under this
Rule may be amended in accordance with Rule 11-414.
(n) Study; Examination
The court may direct the Department of Juvenile Services
or another qualified agency to make a study concerning the
child, the child’s family, the child’s environment, and other
matters relevant to the disposition of the case, in accordance
with the applicable provisions of Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-
17.
(o) Discovery
(1) Generally
Without the necessity of a request, the petitioner shall
furnish to the defense (A) all material or information in any
form, whether or not admissible, that is possessed by or is in
the control of the Department of Juvenile Services and that (i)
the petitioner intends to offer into evidence or (ii) tends to
negate the allegations of the petition or mitigate the severity
106
of a disposition, and (B) all written and oral statements of the
child that relate to the allegations of the petition and all
material and information that relate to the acquisition of such
statements. For good cause, the court may require such other
disclosures and inspections as justice may require.
(2) Matters Not Required to Be Disclosed
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rule, the
Department of Juvenile Services is not required to disclose (A)
mental impressions, trial strategy, personal beliefs, or other
privileged attorney work product, or (B) any other material or
information if the court finds that its disclosure is not
Constitutionally required and would entail a substantial risk of
harm to any person that outweighs the interest of disclosure.
(3) Time for Completion
To the extent practicable, the disclosure and inspection
of all matters and information required or permitted by this
Rule shall be completed in time to permit its beneficial use at
a hearing in which the material or information may be relevant.
If the material or information is not so disclosed, the court
may grant a continuance or postponement of the hearing to permit
the disclosure or inspection.
(4) Disclosures Not to Be Filed with the Court
Unless otherwise ordered by the court, disclosures made
pursuant to this Rule shall not be filed with the court but may
107
be used at a hearing or as an exhibit to support or oppose a
motion.
(5) Failure to Comply
The failure of a party to comply with a disclosure
obligation does not automatically disqualify a witness from
testifying. If a motion is filed to disqualify the witness,
disqualification is within the discretion of the court.
(p) Hearings – Generally
The court shall conduct all hearings in an informal
manner. The court may exclude the general public from a hearing
and admit only those persons having a direct interest in the
proceeding and their representatives.
Cross reference: See Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-13(f)(1) and
(2).
(q) Adjudicatory Hearing
(1) Requirement; Purpose
(A) After a CINS petition is filed, the court shall hold
an adjudicatory hearing, unless the court refers the matter for
informal adjustment in accordance with Rule 11-420.1. If the
court refers the matter for informal adjustment, “delinquency
petition” as used in Rule 11-420.1 shall be construed to refer
to a “CINS petition” under this Rule.
(B) The purpose of the hearing is to determine whether the
allegations of the petition, other than allegations that the
108
child requires guidance, treatment, or rehabilitation, are true.
(2) Timing
(A) Unless the parties agree to an earlier date, an
adjudicatory hearing may not be held earlier than 15 days after
the filing of the CINS petition.
(B) If the child is not in shelter care, the hearing shall
be commenced within 60 days after the later of service of the
petition or the entry of appearance of counsel for the child.
(C) If the child remains in shelter care, the hearing
shall be commenced within 30 days after the date on which the
court ordered continued shelter care. If the hearing is not
held within that time, the child shall be released from shelter
care on reasonable conditions set by the court pending an
adjudicatory hearing.
(D) Once commenced, an adjudicatory hearing shall be
completed with a reasonable degree of continuity.
(3) Evidence; Standard of Proof
The petitioner shall present the evidence in support of
the petition and has the burden of proving the allegations of
the petition by a preponderance of the evidence.
(r) Adjudication; Adjudicatory Order
If the adjudicatory hearing is conducted by a judge, the
judge shall prepare and file a written adjudicatory order
accompanied by a written statement or an oral statement dictated
109
into the record stating (1) a finding whether or to what extent
the petitioner has proved the allegations of the petition, and
(2) the grounds on which the finding is based. If the hearing
is conducted by a magistrate, the magistrate shall prepare and
file a report in accordance with Rule 11-103 (c) or (d).
(s) Disposition Hearing and Order
(1) Generally
Unless a CINS petition is dismissed, the court shall
conduct a separate disposition hearing to determine whether the
child is in need of supervision as defined in Code, Courts
Article, § 3-8A-01(e).
(2) Scheduling
The disposition hearing may be held on the same day as
the adjudicatory hearing if notice of the disposition hearing is
waived on the record by all parties. If the disposition hearing
is not held on the same day as the adjudicatory hearing and the
child is not in shelter care, the disposition hearing shall be
held no later than 30 days after the conclusion of the
adjudicatory hearing. If the child is in shelter care, the
disposition hearing shall be held no later than 14 days after
the conclusion of the adjudicatory hearing, unless shelter care
is extended in conformance with Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-
15(d)(6). If shelter care is extended, the disposition hearing
shall be held before expiration of the extended shelter care.
110
(3) Priorities in Disposition
The priorities in making a disposition shall be
consistent with the purposes set forth in Code, Courts Article,
§ 3-8A-02.
(4) Procedure
If a judge conducts the hearing, the judge shall enter a
written disposition order and shall either file or announce and
dictate into the record (A) a statement of reasons for any order
that includes placement of the child outside the child’s home,
and (B) a statement of each condition for any probation. If a
magistrate conducts the hearing, the proceeding shall be in
accordance with Rule 11-103.
(t) Modification or Vacation of Order
The court may modify or vacate an order if the court
finds that action to be in the best interest of the child or the
public. The provisions of Rule 11-423 (a) and (b) (b)(1),
(b)(2), (b)(3)(A), and (b)(3)(B) shall apply to a proceeding
under this section.
(u) Termination of Jurisdiction
The court may enter a final termination of its
jurisdiction in accordance with Rule 11-425.
Source: This Rule is new.
111
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DIVISION 1 – FORECLOSURE BY COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
RULE 14-601. APPLICABILITY
RULE 14-602. DEFINITIONS
(a) Interested Party
(b) Municipal Corporation
(c) Real Property
(d) Tax
RULE 14-603. VENUE [NO AMENDMENTS PROPOSED]
RULE 14-604. IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS –
COMPLAINT
(a) Contents
(b) Exhibits to be Filed
RULE 14-605. PROCESS [NO AMENDMENTS PROPOSED]
RULE 14-606. HEARING
(a) Timing
(b) Right to Cure
(c) Conduct of Hearing
(d) Finding
(e) Judgment
DIVISION 2 – FORECLOSURE BY STATE GOVERNMENT
RULE 14-611. APPLICABILITY
RULE 14-612. DEFINITIONS
(a) Department
(b) Dwelling
112
(c) Interested Party
(d) Ombudsman
(e) Program
(f) Tax
RULE 14-613. VENUE
RULE 14-614. COMPLAINT
RULE 14-615. PROCESS
RULE 14-616. HEARING
(a) Timing
(b) Right to Cure
(c) Conduct of Hearing
(d) Finding
(e) Judgment
(f) Post-Judgment Sale
113
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 1 – FORECLOSURE BY COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
AMEND Rule 14-601 by replacing the phrase “this Chapter”
with “Division 1 of Chapter 600,” as follows:
Rule 14-601. APPLICABILITY
The Rules in this Chapter Division 1 of Chapter 600 govern
in rem foreclosure actions filed by a county or municipal
corporation to satisfy delinquent taxes pursuant to Code, Tax--
Property Article, §§ 14-873 - 14-876.
Source: This Rule is new.
114
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 1 – FORECLOSURE BY COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
AMEND Rule 14-602 by replacing the phrase “this Chapter”
with “Division 1,” as follows:
Rule 14-602. DEFINITIONS
In the Rules in this Chapter Division 1, the following
definitions apply except as otherwise expressly provided or as
necessary implication requires:
. . .
NO AMENDMENTS TO RULE 14-603 ARE PROPOSED
115
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 1 – FORECLOSURE BY COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Rule 14-603. VENUE
A complaint for in rem foreclosure shall be commenced in
the circuit court for the county in which the real property is
located.
Source: This Rule is new.
116
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 1 – FORECLOSURE BY COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
AMEND Rule 14-604 by revising the title of the Rule and by
making stylistic changes to section (a), as follows:
Rule 14-604. IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS -
COMPLAINT
(a) Contents
In an in rem foreclosure, the complaint, in addition to
complying with Rules 2-303 through 2-305, shall set forth:
(1) the identity of the county or municipal corporation
seeking foreclosure, including its address;
(2) a description of the real property as it appears in the
county land records;
(3) the tax identification number of the real property;
(4) an averment that the taxes are at least six months
delinquent at the time of filing;
(5) the amount of taxes that are delinquent the tax
delinquency as of the date of filing;
Committee note: A complaint may be amended to include any taxes
that become delinquent after commencement of the in rem
foreclosure action. See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
875(f).
117
(6) the names name and last known addresses address of each
interested party;
(7) an averment that the real property is either
(A) a vacant lot, or
(B) improved property cited as
(i) vacant and unsafe, or
(ii) unfit for human habitation or other authorized use;
(8) an averment that the value of the real property as
determined in accordance with Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
874(a)(2) is less than the total amount of liens for unpaid
taxes;
(9) a request that the circuit court not schedule a hearing
on the complaint until at least 30 days after the date the
complaint is accepted for filing by the clerk; and
(10) a request for judgment
(A) foreclosing the existing interest of all interested
parties in the real property and
(B) ordering the transfer of ownership of the real
property to the county or municipal corporation.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, §§ 14-874(a),
14-875(e).
(b) Exhibits to be Filed
The complaint shall be accompanied by:
118
(1) a certificate of the collector showing the total amount
of tax due with all penalties and interest;
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, §§ 1-101(e)
and 14-869(b).
(2) a copy of a document establishing the value of the real
property in compliance with Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
874(a)(2); and
(3) if applicable, a copy of each violation notice
pertaining to an averment in the complaint that is referenced in
subsection (a)(7)(B) of this Rule.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
875(e)(9).
NO AMENDMENTS TO RULE 14-605 ARE PROPOSED
119
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 1 – FORECLOSURE BY COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Rule 14-605. PROCESS
Within five days after the complaint is accepted by the
clerk for filing, the county or municipal corporation shall (a)
in compliance with Rule 2-122 (a)(3), cause notice to be posted
in a conspicuous place on the real property subject to the in
rem foreclosure that at a minimum sets forth (1) the name of the
court in which the in rem foreclosure action has been filed and
the case number of the action, (2) that the property is subject
to an action seeking foreclosure, and (3) that further
information about the foreclosure action may be obtained from
the clerk's office, and (b) send notice and a copy of the
complaint to each interested party by first-class mail and
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
bearing a postmark from the United States Postal Service.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
875(d)(2).
Source: This Rule is new.
120
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 1 – FORECLOSURE BY COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
AMEND Rule 14-606 by deleting the word “circuit” from
section (a) and by replacing the word “state” with the phrase
“include a finding” in subsections (e)(1) and (e)(2), as
follows:
Rule 14-606. HEARING
(a) Timing
The circuit court shall schedule a hearing for a date no
earlier than 30 days after the date the complaint is accepted
for filing by the clerk.
Cross reference: Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-876.
(b) Right to Cure
Until a judgment foreclosing the tax lien is entered in
favor of the county or municipal corporation, any interested
party may cure the tax lien by paying all past due taxes,
including penalties and interest.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-804
(unpaid taxes on real property are tax liens) and Code, Tax--
Property Article, § 14-875(g).
(c) Conduct of Hearing
121
Any interested party shall have the right to be heard, to
contest the delinquency of the taxes, and to contest the
adequacy of the proceedings.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-876(b).
(d) Finding
If the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that (1) notice has been provided to all interested parties
pursuant to Rule 14-605 and (2) the information set forth in the
complaint is accurate and in compliance with Rule 14-604, the
court shall enter a judgment in favor of the county or municipal
corporation.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-876(c).
(e) Judgment
The judgment shall:
(1) state include a finding that notice has been provided to
all interested parties;
(2) state include a finding that the real property is a
vacant lot or an improved property cited as vacant and unsafe or
unfit for human habitation or other authorized use and that the
value of the real property is shown to be less than the amount
of the unpaid taxes; and
(3) order that ownership of the real property be transferred
to the county or municipal corporation on behalf of which the
complaint was filed.
122
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, §§ 14-
876(c)(1)-(2).
Source: This Rule is new.
123
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 2 – FORECLOSURE BY STATE GOVERNMENT
ADD new Rule 14-611, as follows:
Rule 14-611. APPLICABILITY
The Rules in Division 2 of Chapter 600 govern in rem
foreclosure actions filed by or on behalf of the State
Department of Assessments and Taxation to satisfy delinquent
taxes pursuant to Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-890.
Source: This Rule is new.
124
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 2 – FORECLOSURE BY STATE GOVERNMENT
ADD new Rule 14-612, as follows:
Rule 14-612. DEFINITIONS
In the Rules in Division 2, the following definitions apply
except as otherwise expressly provided or as necessary
implication requires:
(a) Department
“Department” means the State Department of Assessments
and Taxation.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 1-101.
(b) Dwelling
(1) “Dwelling” means:
(A) a house that is:
(i) used as the principal residence of the homeowner;
and
(ii) actually occupied or expected to be actually
occupied by the homeowner for more than six months of a 12-month
period as set forth in Code, Tax--Property Article, § 9-105; and
(B) the lot or curtilage on which the house is erected.
125
(2) “Dwelling” includes:
(A) a condominium unit that is occupied by an individual
who has a legal interest in the condominium;
(B) an apartment in a cooperative apartment corporation
that is occupied by an individual who has a legal interest in
the apartment; and
(C) a part of real property used other than primarily for
residential purposes, if the real property is used as a
principal residence by an individual who has a legal interest in
the real property.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 9-105.
(c) Interested Party
“Interested Party” means:
(1) the person who last appears as owner of the dwelling on
the collector's tax roll;
(2) a mortgagee of the property or an assignee of a
mortgagee of record;
(3) a holder of a beneficial interest in a deed of trust
recorded against the dwelling;
(4) a taxing agency that has the authority to collect tax on
the dwelling; or
(5) any person having a current interest in the real
property whose identity and address are (A) reasonably
126
ascertainable from the county land records or (B) revealed by a
full title search consisting of at least 50 years.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-889.
(d) Ombudsman
“Ombudsman” means the State Tax Sale Ombudsman
established under Code, Tax--Property Article, § 2-112.
(e) Program
“Program” means the Homeowner Protection Program
established under Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-883, et seq.
(f) Tax
“Tax” means any tax or charge of any kind due to the
State or any of its political subdivisions, or to any other
taxing agency, that by law is a lien against the dwelling on
which it is imposed or assessed. “Tax” includes applicable
interest.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-801(d).
For the fees and costs permitted to be imposed on a homeowner,
see Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-889. For the definition
of “other taxing agency,” see Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
801(b).
Source: This Rule is new.
127
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 2 – FORECLOSURE BY STATE GOVERNMENT
ADD new Rule 14-613, as follows:
Rule 14-613. VENUE
A complaint for in rem foreclosure shall be commenced in
the circuit court for the county in which the dwelling is
located.
Source: This Rule is new.
128
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 2 – FORECLOSURE BY STATE GOVERNMENT
ADD new Rule 14-614, as follows:
Rule 14-614. COMPLAINT
In an in rem foreclosure filed by or on behalf of the
Department, the complaint, in addition to complying with Rules
2-303 through 2-305, shall set forth:
(a) the name and address of the Department;
(b) a description of the dwelling as it appears in the
county land records;
(c) the tax identification number of the dwelling;
(d) an averment from the Ombudsman that:
(1) at least three years have elapsed since the homeowner
first enrolled in the Program;
(2) all reasonable efforts to assist the homeowner to pay
the taxes owed to the Department have failed; and
(3) the homeowner's enrollment in the program was not
cancelled under Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-886(d);
(e) the amount of delinquent taxes as of the date of filing;
129
(f) the name and last known address of each interested party
and, if applicable, a statement that the address of a particular
interested party is unknown;
(g) a request that the court not schedule a hearing on the
complaint until at least 30 days after the date the complaint is
accepted for filing by the clerk; and
(h) a request for judgment:
(1) foreclosing the existing interests of all interested
parties in the dwelling; and
(2) ordering the dwelling to be sold at public auction.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-890(f).
Committee note: A complaint may be amended to include any taxes
that become delinquent after commencement of the in rem
foreclosure action. See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
890(g).
Source: This Rule is new.
130
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 2 – FORECLOSURE BY STATE GOVERNMENT
ADD new Rule 14-615, as follows:
Rule 14-615. PROCESS
Within five days after the complaint is accepted by the
clerk for filing, the Department or its representative shall (a)
in compliance with Rule 2-122 (a)(3), cause notice to be posted
in a conspicuous place on the dwelling subject to the in rem
foreclosure that sets forth (1) the name of the court in which
the in rem foreclosure action has been filed and the case number
of the action, (2) that the dwelling is subject to an action
seeking foreclosure, and (3) that further information about the
foreclosure action may be obtained from the clerk's office, and
(b) send notice and a copy of the complaint to each interested
party by first-class mail and certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested, bearing a postmark from the United
States Postal Service.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-
890(d)(2).
Source: This Rule is new.
131
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 14 – SALES OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 600 – IN REM FORECLOSURE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAX LIENS
DIVISION 2 – FORECLOSURE BY STATE GOVERNMENT
ADD new Rule 14-616, as follows:
Rule 14-616. HEARING; JUDGMENT
(a) Timing
The court shall schedule a hearing for a date no earlier
than 30 days after the date the complaint is accepted for filing
by the clerk.
Cross reference: Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-890(i).
(b) Right to Cure
Until a judgment foreclosing the tax lien is entered, any
interested party may cure the tax lien by paying all past due
taxes, including applicable interest.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-890(h).
(c) Conduct of Hearing
Any interested party shall have the right to be heard, to
contest the delinquency of the taxes, and to contest the
adequacy of the proceedings.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-890(j).
(d) Finding
132
If the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that (1) notice has been provided to all interested parties
pursuant to Rule 14-615 and (2) the information set forth in the
complaint is accurate and in compliance with Rule 14-614, the
court shall enter judgment.
(e) Judgment
The judgment shall:
(1) include a finding that notice has been provided to all
interested parties; and
(2) order that the dwelling be sold at public auction.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-890(k).
(f) Post-Judgment Sale
After entry of a judgment ordering the sale of a dwelling
pursuant to this Division, the sale shall be conducted in
accordance with Chapter 300 of this Title.
Cross reference: See Code, Tax--Property Article, § 14-890(l)-
(p).
Source: This Rule is new.
133
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 15 – OTHER SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS
CHAPTER 900 – NAME — CHANGE OF NAME; JUDICIAL DECLARATION OF
GENDER IDENTITY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
RULE 15-901. ACTION FOR CHANGE OF NAME
(a) Applicability
(b) Venue
(c) Petition
(d) Service of Petition – When Required
(e) Notice
(f) Objection to Petition
(g) Action by Court
(a) Applicability
(b) Venue
(c) Petition
(d) Minors – Notice to Nonconsenting Parent, Guardian, or
Custodian
(e) Objection to Petition
(f) Action by Court; Hearing
RULE 15-902. ACTION FOR JUDICIAL DECLARATION OF GENDER IDENTITY
(a) Applicability
(b) Venue
(c) Minors – Notice to Nonconsenting Parent, Guardian, or
Custodian
(d) Action by Court; Hearing
134
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 15 – OTHER SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS
CHAPTER 900 – NAME - CHANGE OF NAME; JUDICIAL DECLARATION OF
GENDER IDENTITY
AMEND Rule 15-901 by changing the Chapter title; by
revising the applicability section of the Rule; by deleting
language pertaining to venue from section (b); by adding new
subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) pertaining to venue for petitions
by an adult and on behalf of a minor, respectively; by adding
new subsection (c)(1)(B) pertaining to venue; by re-lettering
the subsequent subsections in subsection (c)(1); by altering
subsection (c)(1)(G) to address certain consents to the name
change of a minor; by adding a Committee note pertaining to
confidential information in petitions on behalf of minors; by
altering a cross reference following subsection (c)(1); by
clarifying and adding to the information required by subsection
(c)(1)(H); by adding new subsection (c)(2)(B) pertaining to
written consents to the name change of a minor; by moving
current section (e) to new section (d); by re-captioning section
(d) to pertain to notice to parents, guardians, and custodians
who do not consent to a petition on behalf of a minor; by adding
new subsection (d)(1) pertaining to notice generally; by adding
new subsection (d)(2) pertaining to notice in a language other
135
than English; by adding new subsection (d)(3) pertaining to
documents to be served; by deleting certain provisions in
current section (d) so that service must comply with Rule 2-121;
by deleting current subsection (e)(2) pertaining to publication;
by re-lettering current section (f) as section (e) pertaining to
an objection to a petition; by modifying section (e) pertaining
to failure by a parent, guardian, or custodian to object to a
petition on behalf of a minor; by adding a Committee note
following new section (e) regarding the right to object to a
petition by an adult; by re-lettering current section (g) as
section (f) pertaining to action by the court and hearings; by
creating new subsection (f)(1) with language from current
section (g) pertaining to court action on a petition by an
adult; by adding a Committee note following subsection (f)(1)
regarding the 30-day delay before the court may enter an order
on a petition for a name change for an adult; by adding new
subsection (f)(2) pertaining to court action and hearing
requirements for a petition on behalf of a minor; and by making
stylistic changes, as follows:
Rule 15-901. ACTION FOR CHANGE OF NAME
(a) Applicability
136
This Rule applies to actions for change of name other
than in connection with an adoption, or divorce, or declaration
of gender identity.
(b) Venue
An action for change of name shall be brought in the
county where the person whose name is sought to be changed
resides.
(1) Change of Name of an Adult
An action for change of name of an adult shall be
brought in the county where the adult resides, carries on a
regular business, is employed, habitually engages in a vocation,
or was born.
(2) Change of Name of a Minor
An action for change of name of a minor shall be brought
by an adult petitioner on behalf of the minor in the county
where the minor resides or where a parent, guardian, or
custodian of the minor resides.
(c) Petition
(1) Contents
The An action for change of name shall be commenced by
filing a petition captioned “In the Matter of ...” [stating the
name of the person individual whose name is sought to be
changed] “for change of name to ...” [stating the change of name
137
desired]. The petition shall be under oath and shall contain at
least the following information:
(A) the name, address, and date and place of birth of the
person individual whose name is sought to be changed;
(B) a statement as to why venue is appropriate;
(B)(C) whether the person individual whose name is sought
to be changed has ever been known by any other name and, if so,
the each name or names and the circumstances under which they
were the name was used;
(C)(D) the change of name desired;
(D)(E) all reasons for the requested change;
(E)(F) a certification that the petitioner is not
requesting the name change for any illegal or fraudulent
purpose;
(F)(G) if the person individual whose name is sought to be
changed is a minor, (i) a statement explaining why the
petitioner believes that the name change is in the best interest
of the minor; (ii) the names and addresses of that person's
parents the name and address of each parent and any guardian or
custodian of the minor; (iii) whether each of those persons
consents to the name change; (iv) whether the petitioner has
reason to believe that any parent, guardian, or custodian is
unfamiliar with the English language and, if so, the language
the petitioner reasonably believes the individual can
138
understand; (v) if the minor is at least ten years old, whether
the minor consents to the name change; and (vi) if the minor is
younger than ten years old, whether the minor objects to the
name change; and
Committee note: If a petition filed on behalf of a minor
contains confidential information pertaining to the minor, the
petitioner may request that the court seal or otherwise limit
inspection of a case record as provided in Rule 16-934.
(G)(H) whether the person individual whose name is sought
to be changed has ever registered or been required to register
as a sexual offender and, if so, the each full name(s) name,
(including suffixes) any suffix, under which the person
individual was registered and each state where the registration
requirement originated.
Cross reference: See Code, Criminal Procedure Article, § 11-
705, which requires a registered sexual offender whose name has
been changed by order of court to send written notice of the
change to the Department of Public Safety and Correctional
Services each law enforcement unit where the registrant resides
or habitually lives within seven three days after the order is
entered.
(2) Documents to Be Attached to Petition
The petitioner shall attach to the petition:
(A) a copy of a birth certificate or other documentary
evidence from which the court can find that the current name of
the person individual whose name is sought to be changed is as
alleged; and
139
(B) if the individual whose name is sought to be changed
is a minor, (i) the written consent of each parent, guardian,
and custodian of the minor or an explanation why the consent is
not attached, and (ii) the written consent of the minor, if the
minor is at least ten years old.
(d) Service of Petition – When Required
If the person whose name is sought to be changed is a
minor, a copy of the petition, any attachments, and the notice
issued pursuant to section (e) of this Rule shall be served upon
that person's parents and any guardian or custodian in the
manner provided by Rule 2-121. When proof is made by affidavit
that good faith efforts to serve a parent, guardian, or
custodian pursuant to Rule 2-121 (a) have not succeeded and that
Rule 2-121 (b) is inapplicable or that service pursuant to that
Rule is impracticable, the court may order that service may be
made by (1) the publication required by subsection (e)(2) of
this Rule and (2) or mailing a copy of the petition, any
attachments, and notice by first class mail to the last known
address of the parent, guardian, or custodian to be served.
(e) Notice
(1) Issued by Clerk
(d) Minors – Notice to Nonconsenting Parent, Guardian, or
Custodian
(1) Generally
140
Upon the filing of the a petition for change of name of
a minor, if the written consent of each parent, guardian, and
custodian of the minor was not filed pursuant to subsection
(c)(2)(B) of this Rule, the clerk shall sign and issue a notice
Notice in a form approved by the State Court Administrator that
(A) includes the caption of the action, (B) describes the
substance of the petition and the relief sought, and (C) states
the latest date by which an objection to the petition may be
filed that any objection to the name change shall be filed no
later than 30 days after service of the petition.
(2) Notice or Advisement in Language Other Than English
If the petition states that a nonconsenting parent,
guardian, or custodian may be unfamiliar with the English
language, the clerk also shall either issue the Notice in the
language indicated in the petition or, if the Notice is not
available in the indicated language, attach a Multilingual
Advisement Form approved by the State Court Administrator to the
Notice that was issued in English.
(3) Documents to Be Served
A copy of the following documents shall be served upon
each nonconsenting parent, guardian, or custodian in the manner
provided by Rule 2-121:
(A) the Notice,
(B) the petition,
141
(C) each attachment to the petition, and
(D) if the petition indicates that the individual to be
served is unfamiliar with the English language, either the
Notice in the indicated language or a Multilingual Advisement
Form attached to the Notice.
(2) Publication
Unless the court on motion of the petitioner orders
otherwise, the notice shall be published one time in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county in which the action was
pending at least fifteen days before the date specified in the
notice for filing an objection to the petition. The petitioner
shall thereafter file a certificate of publication.
(f)(e) Objection to Petition
Any person may file an objection to the petition. The
objection shall be filed within the time specified in the notice
and shall be supported by an affidavit which that sets forth the
reasons for the objection. The affidavit shall be made on
personal knowledge, shall set forth facts that would be
admissible in evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the
affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in the
affidavit. The objection and affidavit shall be served upon the
petitioner in accordance with Rule 1-321. The petitioner may
file a response within 15 days after being served with the
objection and affidavit. A parent, guardian, or custodian of a
142
minor who does not file an objection within 30 days after being
served in accordance with section (d) of this Rule shall be
deemed to have consented to the name change of the minor. A
person desiring a hearing shall so request in the objection or
response under the heading “Request for Hearing.”
Committee note: Nothing in this Rule is intended to abrogate
the right of a person who learns of a requested name change to
object to the name change where there is personal knowledge of
an illegal or fraudulent purpose or harm to the rights of
others.
(g)(f) Action by Court; Hearing
(1) Name Change of Adult
After the time for filing objections and responses has
expired, the The court may hold a hearing or may rule on the a
petition to change the name of an adult without a hearing and
shall enter an appropriate order, except that the court shall
not deny the petition without a hearing if one was requested by
the petitioner. The court may not enter an order earlier than
30 days after the petition was filed.
Committee note: Although there is no publication or other
required notice of a requested name change of an adult, if a
person learns of a requested name change, the 30-day delay in
the entry of an order after the petition is filed affords a
period of time within which an objection could be filed.
(2) Name Change of Minor
The court may hold a hearing or may rule on a petition
to change the name of a minor without a hearing and enter an
appropriate order if (A) the written consent of the minor, if
143
required, has been filed, and (B) each parent, guardian, and
custodian (i) has filed a written consent pursuant to subsection
(c)(2)(B) of this Rule, or (ii) having been served pursuant to
section (d) of this Rule, did not timely file an objection. In
all other cases in which a name change of a minor is requested,
the court shall hold a hearing and enter an appropriate order no
earlier than 30 days after all nonconsenting parents, guardians,
or custodians have been served in accordance with section (d) of
this Rule.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rules BH70
through BH75 and is in part new.
144
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 15 – OTHER SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS
CHAPTER 900 – NAME - CHANGE OF NAME; JUDICIAL DECLARATION OF
GENDER IDENTITY
ADD new Rule 15-902, as follows:
Rule 15-902. ACTION FOR JUDICIAL DECLARATION OF GENDER IDENTITY
(a) Applicability
This Rule applies to actions for judicial declaration of
gender identity, with or without a name change.
Committee note: Under certain circumstances, a judicial
declaration of gender identity may be necessary to change an
individual’s gender designation on a birth certificate or to
affirm the individual’s gender identity in legal,
administrative, and other contexts.
Cross reference: See Rule 16-914 (p) concerning inspection of a
case record in an action filed under this Rule. For a change of
name without a judicial declaration of gender identity, see Rule
15-901.
(b) Venue
(1) Declaration of Gender Identity of an Adult
An action for judicial declaration of gender identity
shall be brought in the county where the adult resides, carries
on a regular business, is employed, habitually engages in a
vocation, or was born.
(2) Declaration of Gender Identity of a Minor
145
An action for judicial declaration of gender identity of
a minor shall be brought by an adult petitioner on behalf of the
minor in the county where the minor resides or where a parent,
guardian, or custodian of the minor resides, or where the minor
was born.
(c) Petition
(1) Contents
An action for judicial declaration of gender identity
shall be commenced by filing a petition captioned “In the Matter
of ...” [stating the name of the individual for whom the
declaration is sought] “for judicial declaration of gender
identity as...” [stating the gender designation desired]. The
petition shall be under oath and shall contain the following
information:
(A) the name, address, and date and place of birth of the
individual for whom the relief requested is sought;
(B) a statement as to why venue is appropriate;
(C) the gender identity declaration desired;
(D) all reasons for the relief requested;
(E) a certification that the petitioner is not requesting
the relief for any illegal or fraudulent purpose; and
(F) if the individual for whom the declaration is sought
is a minor, (i) a statement explaining why the petitioner
believes that the relief requested is in the best interest of
146
the minor; (ii) the name and address of each parent and any
guardian or custodian of the minor; (iii) whether each of those
individuals consents to the relief requested; (iv) whether the
petitioner has reason to believe that any parent, guardian, or
custodian is unfamiliar with the English language and, if so,
the language the petitioner reasonably believes the individual
can understand; (v) if the minor is at least ten years old,
whether the minor consents to the relief requested; and (vi) if
the minor is younger than 10 years old, whether the minor
objects to the relief requested.
(2) Change of Name
If the petitioner also requests a name change, the
petition shall include the following information:
(A) whether the individual whose name is sought to be
changed has ever been known by any other name and, if so, each
name and the circumstances under which the name was used;
(B) the change of name desired; and
(C) whether the individual whose name is sought to be
changed has ever registered or been required to register as a
sexual offender and, if so, each full name, including any
suffix, under which the individual was registered and each state
where the registration requirement originated.
Cross reference: See Code, Criminal Procedure Article, § 11-
705, which requires a registered sexual offender whose name has
been changed by order of court to send written notice of the
147
change to each law enforcement unit where the registrant resides
or habitually lives within three days after the order is
entered.
(3) Documents to Be Attached to the Petition
The petitioner shall attach to the petition:
(A) if the individual for whom relief is sought is a
minor, (i) the written consents of each parent, guardian, or
custodian of the minor or an explanation why the consent is not
attached, and (ii) the written consent of the minor, if the
minor is at least 10 years old;
(B) any documentation in support of the requested
declaration of gender identity; and
(C) if the petitioner requests a name change, a copy of a
birth certificate or other documentary evidence from which the
court can find that the current name of the person whose name is
sought to be changed is as alleged.
(d) Minors – Notice to Nonconsenting Parent, Guardian, or
Custodian
(1) Generally
Upon the filing of a petition under this Rule on behalf
of a minor, if the written consent of each parent, guardian, and
custodian of the minor was not filed pursuant to subsection
(c)(2)(B) of this Rule, the clerk shall sign and issue a Notice
in a form approved by the State Court Administrator that (A)
includes the caption of the action, (B) describes the substance
148
of the petition and the relief sought, and (C) states that any
objection to the relief requested shall be filed no later than
30 days after service of the petition.
(2) Notice or Advisement in Language Other Than English
If the petition states that a nonconsenting parent,
guardian, or custodian may be unfamiliar with the English
language, the clerk also shall either issue the Notice in the
language indicated in the petition or, if the Notice is not
available in the indicated language, attach a Multilingual
Advisement Form approved by the State Court Administrator to the
Notice that was issued in English.
(3) Documents to Be Served
A copy of the following documents shall be served upon
each nonconsenting parent, guardian, or custodian in the manner
provided by Rule 2-121:
(A) the Notice,
(B) the petition,
(C) each attachment to the petition, and
(D) if the petition indicates that the individual to be
served is unfamiliar with the English language, either the
Notice in the indicated language or a Multilingual Advisement
Form attached to the Notice.
(4) Objection to Petition
149
A parent, guardian, or custodian of a minor who does not
consent to the relief requested may file an objection no later
than 30 days after being served in accordance with subsection
(d)(3) of this Rule. The objection shall be supported by an
affidavit that sets forth the reasons for the objection. The
affidavit shall be made on personal knowledge, shall set forth
facts that would be admissible in evidence, and shall show
affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the
matters stated in the affidavit. The objection and affidavit
shall be served upon the petitioner in accordance with Rule 1-
321. The petitioner may file a response within 15 days after
being served with the objection and affidavit. A parent,
guardian, or custodian of a minor who does not file an objection
within 30 days after being served in accordance with subsection
(d)(3) of this Rule shall be deemed to have consented to the
relief requested.
(e) Action by Court; Hearing
(1) Petition Seeking Declaration of Gender Identity of an
Adult
The court may hold a hearing on a petition seeking a
declaration of gender identity of an adult, or may grant the
relief requested without a hearing, and shall enter an
appropriate order, except that the court may not deny any of the
relief requested without a hearing.
150
(2) Petition Filed on Behalf of a Minor
The court may hold a hearing or may grant the relief
requested on a petition filed on behalf of a minor without a
hearing and enter an appropriate order if (A) the written
consent of the minor, if required, has been filed, and (B) each
parent, guardian, and custodian (i) has filed a written consent
pursuant to subsection (c)(3)(A) of this Rule, or (ii) having
been served pursuant to subsection (d)(3) of this Rule, did not
timely file an objection. In all other cases, the court shall
hold a hearing no earlier than 30 days after all nonconsenting
parents, guardians, or custodians have been served in accordance
with subsection (d)(3) of this Rule and enter an appropriate
order. To aid the court in evaluating the best interests of the
minor, the court may order further proceedings, which may
include a specific issue evaluation using the procedure set
forth in Rule 9-205.3. The court may not deny any of the relief
requested without a hearing.
Committee note: Not all individuals identify as cisgender or
transgender or on a binary of male or female. See In re K.L.,
252 Md.App. 148 (2021), citing Grimm v. Gloucester County School
Board, 972 F. 3d 586 (4th Cir. 2020).
Cross reference: See In re K.L., 252 Md.App. 148 (2021); In re
Heilig, 372 Md. 692 (2003); Code, Health General Article, § 4-
211; and Code, Transportation Article, § 12-305.
Source: This Rule is new.
151
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 16 – COURT ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 800 – MISCELLANEOUS COURT ADMINISTRATION MATTERS
DELETE Rule 16-805, as follows:
Rule 16-805. APPOINTMENT OF BAIL BOND COMMISSIONER – LICENSING
AND REGULATION OF PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO WRITE BONDS
A majority of the judges of the circuit courts in any
appellate judicial circuit may appoint a bail bond commissioner,
license persons authorized to write bail bonds within the
appellate judicial circuit, and regulate acceptance of bail
bonds written by those licensees. Each bail bond commissioner
appointed pursuant to this Rule shall prepare, maintain, and
periodically distribute to all District Court commissioners and
clerks within the jurisdiction of the appellate judicial circuit
for posting in their respective offices, to the State Court
Administrator, and to the Chief Clerk of the District Court, an
alphabetical list of licensees within the appellate judicial
circuit, showing each licensee's name, business address and
telephone number, and any limit on the amount of any one bond,
and the aggregate limit on all bonds, each licensee is
authorized to write.
Source: This Rule is derived from former Rule 16-817 (2016).
152
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 16 – COURT ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 900 – ACCESS TO JUDICIAL RECORDS
DIVISION 2 – LIMITATIONS ON ACCESS
AMEND Rule 16-914 by adding new section (p) pertaining to a
judicial declaration of gender identity and by correcting
stylistic errors in subsections (f)(4) and (k)(2), as follows:
Rule 16-914. CASE RECORDS--REQUIRED DENIAL OF INSPECTION--
CERTAIN CATEGORIES
Except as otherwise provided by law, court order, or the
Rules in this Chapter, the custodian shall deny inspection of:
(a) All case records filed in the following actions involving
children:
(1) Actions filed under Title 9, Chapter 100 of the Maryland
Rules for:
(A) adoption;
(B) guardianship; or
(C) revocation of a consent to adoption or guardianship
for which there is no pending adoption or guardianship
proceeding in that county.
(2) Delinquency, child in need of assistance, public agency
guardianship terminating parental rights, voluntary placement,
153
child in need of supervision, peace order, and truancy actions
in Juvenile Court, except that, if a hearing is open to the
public pursuant to Code, Courts Article, § 3-8A-13(f), the name
of the respondent and the date, time, and location of the
hearing are open to inspection unless the record was ordered
expunged.
Committee note: In most instances, the “child” or “children”
referred to in this section will be minors, but, as Juvenile
Court jurisdiction extends until a child is 21, in some cases,
the children legally may be adults. The Juvenile Court also has
jurisdiction over certain proceedings against an adult. Case
records pertaining to these proceedings are not subject to this
section. See Rule 11-507.
(b) Case records pertaining to petitions for relief from
abuse filed pursuant to Code, Family Law Article, § 4-504, which
shall be sealed until the earlier of service or denial of the
petition.
(c) Case records shielded pursuant to Code, Courts Article, §
3-1510 (peace orders), Code, Family Law Article, § 4-512
(domestic violence protective orders), or Code, Public Safety
Article, § 5-602 (c) (extreme risk protective orders).
(d) In any action or proceeding, a record created or
maintained by an agency concerning child abuse or neglect that
is required by statute to be kept confidential.
Committee note: Statutes that require child abuse or neglect
records to be kept confidential include Code, Human Services
Article, §§ 1-202 and 1-203 and Code, Family Law Article, § 5-
707.
154
(e) Except for docket entries and orders entered under Rule
10-108, papers and submissions filed in guardianship actions or
proceedings under Title 10, Chapter 200, 300, 400, or 700 of the
Maryland Rules.
Committee note: Most filings in guardianship actions are likely
to be permeated with financial, medical, or psychological
information regarding the minor or disabled person that
ordinarily would be sealed or shielded under other Rules.
Rather than require custodians to pore through those documents
to redact that kind of information, this Rule shields the
documents themselves subject to Rule 16-934, which permits the
court, on a motion and for good cause, to permit inspection of
case records that otherwise are not subject to inspection.
There may be circumstances in which that should be allowed. The
guardian, of course, will have access to the case records and
may need to share some of them with third persons in order to
perform his or her duties, and this Rule is not intended to
impede the guardian from doing so. Public access to the docket
entries and to orders entered under Rule 10-108 will allow
others to be informed of the guardianship and to seek additional
access pursuant to Rule 16-934.
(f) The following case records in criminal actions or
proceedings:
(1) A case record that has been ordered expunged pursuant to
Rule 4-508.
(2) The following case records pertaining to search
warrants:
(A) The warrant, application, and supporting affidavit,
prior to execution of the warrant and the filing of the records
with the clerk.
155
(B) Executed search warrants and all papers attached
thereto filed pursuant to Rule 4-601, except as authorized by a
judge under that Rule.
(3) The following case records pertaining to an arrest
warrant:
(A) A case record pertaining to an arrest warrant issued
under Rule 4-212 (d) and the charging document upon which the
warrant was issued until the conditions set forth in Rule 4-212
(d)(3) are satisfied.
(B) Except as otherwise provided in Code, General
Provisions Article, § 4-316, a case record pertaining to an
arrest warrant issued pursuant to a grand jury indictment or
conspiracy investigation and the charging document upon which
the arrest warrant was issued.
(4) Unless entered into evidence at a hearing or trial or
otherwise ordered by the court, a case record pertaining to
(i)(A) a pen register or trace device applied for or ordered
pursuant to Rule 4-601.1, (ii)(B) an emergency order applied for
or entered pursuant to Rule 4-602, (iii)(C) the interception of
wire or oral communications applied for or ordered pursuant to
Rule 4-611, or (v)(D) an order for electronic device location
information applied for or entered pursuant to Rule 4-612.
156
(5) A case record maintained under Code, Courts Article, §
9-106, of the refusal of an individual to testify in a criminal
action against the individual's spouse.
(6) Subject to Rules 16-902 (c) and 4-341, a presentence
investigation report prepared pursuant to Code, Correctional
Services Article, § 6-112.
(7) Except as otherwise provided by law, a case record
pertaining to a criminal investigation by (A) a grand jury, (B)
a State's Attorney pursuant to Code, Criminal Procedure Article,
§ 15-108, (C) the State Prosecutor pursuant to Code, Criminal
Procedure Article, § 14-110, or (D) the Attorney General when
acting pursuant to Article V, § 3 of the Maryland Constitution
or other law or a federal law enforcement agency.
Cross reference: See Code, Criminal Procedure Article, §§ 1-
203.1, 9-101, 14-110, and 15-108, and Rules 4-612 and 4-643
dealing, respectively, with electronic device location,
extradition warrants, States' Attorney, State Prosecutor, and
grand jury subpoenas, and Code, Courts Article, §§ 10-406, 10-
408, 10-4B-02, and 10-4B-03 dealing with wiretap and pen
register orders. See also Code, Criminal Procedure Article, §§
11-110.1 and 11-114 dealing with HIV test results.
Committee note: Although this Rule shields only case records
pertaining to a criminal investigation, there may be other laws
that shield other kinds of judicial records pertaining to such
investigations. This Rule is not intended to affect the
operation or effectiveness of any such other law.
(8) A case record required to be shielded by Code, Criminal
Procedure Article, Title 10, Subtitle 3 (Criminal Records –
Shielding).
157
Cross reference: See Code, Criminal Law Article, § 5-601.1
governing confidentiality of judicial records pertaining to a
citation issued for a violation of Code, Criminal Law Article, §
5-601 involving the use or possession of less than 10 grams of
marijuana.
(9) The following case records pertaining to a child
excluded from the jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court under Code,
Courts Article, § 3-8A-03(d)(1), (4), or (5):
(A) A case record pertaining to a case where a motion to
transfer jurisdiction to the Juvenile Court pursuant to Code,
Criminal Procedure Article, § 4-202 is pending or the time for
filing such motion has not expired.
(B) A case record pertaining to a case transferred to the
Juvenile Court.
Committee note: Nothing in this Rule precludes a clerk from
divulging a case number to an attorney for the purpose of
entering an appearance in the case or petitioning the court for
access to the court file to determine whether to enter an
appearance in the case.
(g) A transcript or an audio, video, or digital recording of
any court proceeding that was closed to the public pursuant to
Rule, order of court, or other law.
(h) Subject to the Rules in Title 16, Chapter 500, backup
audio recordings, computer disks, and notes of a court reporter
that have not been filed with the clerk.
(i) The following case records containing medical or other
health information:
158
(1) A case record, other than an autopsy report of a medical
examiner, that (A) consists of a medical or psychological report
or record from a hospital, physician, psychologist, or other
professional health care provider, and (B) contains medical or
psychological information about an individual.
(2) A case record pertaining to the testing of an individual
for HIV that is declared confidential under Code, Health-General
Article, § 18-338.1, § 18-338.2, or § 18-338.3.
(3) A case record that consists of information, documents,
or records of a child fatality review team, to the extent they
are declared confidential by Code, Health-General Article, § 5-
709.
(4) A case record that contains a report by a physician or
institution concerning whether an individual has an infectious
disease, declared confidential under Code, Health-General
Article, § 18-201 or § 18-202.
(5) A case record that contains information concerning the
consultation, examination, or treatment of a developmentally
disabled individual, declared confidential by Code, Health-
General Article, § 7-1003.
(6) A case record relating to a petition for an emergency
evaluation made under Code, Health-General Article, § 10-622 and
declared confidential under § 10-630 of that Article.
159
(j) A case record that consists of the federal, state, or
local income tax return of an individual.
(k) A case record that:
(1) a court has ordered sealed or not subject to inspection,
except in conformance with the order; or
(2) in accordance with Rule 16-934 (b)(c) is the subject of
a pending petition to preclude or limit inspection.
(l) A case record that consists of a financial statement
filed pursuant to Rule 9-202, a Child Support Guideline
Worksheet filed pursuant to Rule 9-206, or a Joint Statement of
Marital and Non-marital Property filed pursuant to Rule 9-207.
Cross reference: See also Rule 9-203.
(m) A document required to be shielded under Rule 20-203
(e)(1).
(n) An unredacted document filed pursuant to Rule 1-322.1 or
Rule 20-203 (e)(2).
(o) A parenting plan or joint statement prepared and filed
pursuant to Rules 9-204.1 and 9-204.2.
(p) An action for judicial declaration of gender identity
filed pursuant to Rule 15-902.
Source: This Rule is derived in part from former Rule 16-907
(2019).
160
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 18 – JUDGES AND JUDICIAL APPOINTEES
CHAPTER 300 – JUDICIAL ETHICS COMMITTEE
AMEND Rule 18-302 by adding one circuit court judge and one
senior judge to the composition of the Judicial Ethics Committee
and by replacing the word “former” in subsection (c)(1) with the
word “senior,” as follows:
Rule 18-302. EXISTENCE; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS
(a) Creation
There is a Judicial Ethics Committee.
(b) Membership
The Committee consists of 13 15 members appointed by the
Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals. Of the 13 15 members:
(1) one shall be a judge of the Court of Special Appeals;
(2) two three shall be circuit court judges;
(3) two shall be judges of the District Court;
(4) one shall be a judge of an orphans' court;
(5) three four shall be senior judges;
(6) one shall be a clerk of a circuit court;
(7) one shall be a judicial appointee as defined in Rule 18-
200.3; and
161
(8) two shall not be a judge or other official or employee
of the Judicial Branch of the State government or an attorney.
(c) Terms
(1) The term of a member is three years and begins on July
1, except that the former senior judges appointed pursuant to
subsection (b)(5) of this Rule shall not have a term and shall
serve at the pleasure of the Chief Judge of the Court of
Appeals.
(2) The terms of the members shall be staggered so that the
terms of not more than four members expire each year.
(3) At the end of a term, a member continues to serve until
a successor is appointed.
(4) A member who is appointed after a term has begun serves
only for the rest of the term and until a successor is
appointed.
(5) A member may not serve more than two consecutive three-
year terms.
Source: This Rule is derived from sections (b), (c), and (d) of
former Rule 16-812.1 (2016).
162
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 19 – ATTORNEYS
CHAPTER 300 – MARYLAND ATTORNEYS’ RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT
AMEND Rule 19-303.8 to adopt sections (g) and (h) of
American Bar Association Model Rule 3.8 as sections (f) and (g),
to add the relevant Model Rule Comments with minor changes to
mirror existing language, and to make stylistic changes, as
follows:
Rule 19-303.8. SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF A PROSECUTOR (3.8)
The prosecutor in a criminal case shall:
(a) refrain from prosecuting a charge that the prosecutor
knows is not supported by probable cause;
(b) make reasonable efforts to assure that the accused has
been advised of the right to, and the procedure for obtaining,
an attorney and has been given reasonable opportunity to obtain
an attorney;
(c) not seek to obtain from an unrepresented accused a waiver
of important pretrial rights, such as the right to a preliminary
hearing;
(d) make timely disclosure to the defense of all evidence or
information known to the prosecutor that tends to negate the
guilt of the accused or mitigates the offense, and, in
163
connection with sentencing, disclose to the defense and to the
tribunal all unprivileged mitigating information known to the
prosecutor, except when the prosecutor is relieved of this
responsibility by a protective order of the tribunal; and
(e) except for statements that are necessary to inform the
public of the nature and extent of the prosecutor's action and
that serve a legitimate law enforcement purpose, refrain from
making extrajudicial comments that have a substantial likelihood
of heightening public condemnation of the accused and exercise
reasonable care to prevent an employee or other person under the
control of the prosecutor in a criminal case from making an
extrajudicial statement that the prosecutor would be prohibited
from making under Rule 19-303.6 (3.6) or this Rule.;
(f) when a prosecutor knows of new, credible, and material
evidence creating a reasonable likelihood that a convicted
defendant did not commit an offense of which the defendant was
convicted, the prosecutor shall:
(1) promptly disclose that evidence to an appropriate court
or authority; and
(2) if the conviction was obtained in the prosecutor's
jurisdiction:
(i) promptly disclose that evidence to the defendant
unless a court authorizes delay; and
164
(ii) undertake further investigation, or make reasonable
efforts to cause an investigation, to determine whether the
defendant was convicted of an offense that the defendant did not
commit; and
(g) when a prosecutor knows of clear and convincing evidence
establishing that a defendant in the prosecutor's jurisdiction
was convicted of an offense that the defendant did not commit,
the prosecutor shall seek to remedy the conviction.
COMMENT
[1] A prosecutor has the responsibility of a minister of
justice and not simply that of an advocate. This responsibility
carries with it specific obligations to see that the defendant
is accorded procedural justice and that guilt is decided upon
the basis of sufficient evidence. Precisely how far the
prosecutor is required to go in this direction is a matter of
debate and varies in different jurisdictions. Many
jurisdictions have adopted the ABA Standards of Criminal Justice
Relating to Prosecution Function, which in turn are the product
of prolonged and careful deliberation by attorneys experienced
in both criminal prosecution and defense. See also Rule 19-
303.3 (d) (3.3), governing ex parte proceedings, among which
grand jury proceedings are included. Applicable law may require
other measures by the prosecutor and knowing disregard of those
obligations or a systematic abuse of prosecutorial discretion
could constitute a violation of Rule 19-308.4 (8.4).
[2] Section (c) of this Rule does not apply to an accused
appearing self-represented with the approval of the tribunal.
Nor does it forbid the lawful questioning of a suspect who has
knowingly waived the rights to an attorney and silence.
[3] The exception in section (d) of this Rule recognizes
that a prosecutor may seek an appropriate protective order from
the tribunal if disclosure of information to the defense could
result in substantial harm to an individual or to the public
interest.
165
[4] Section (e) of this Rule supplements Rule 19-303.6
(3.6), which prohibits extrajudicial statements that have a
substantial likelihood of prejudicing an adjudicatory
proceeding. In the context of a criminal prosecution, a
prosecutor's extrajudicial statement can create the additional
problem of increasing public condemnation of the accused.
Although the announcement of an indictment, for example, will
necessarily have severe consequences for the accused, a
prosecutor can, and should, avoid comments which have no
legitimate law enforcement purpose and have a substantial
likelihood of increasing public opprobrium of the accused.
Nothing in this Comment is intended to restrict the statements
which a prosecutor may make which comply with Rule 19-303.6 (b)
(3.6) or 19-303.6 (c) (3.6).
[5] Like other attorneys, prosecutors are subject to Rules
19-305.1 (5.1) and 19-305.3 (5.3), which relate to
responsibilities regarding attorneys and non-attorneys who work
for or are associated with the attorney's office. Section (e)
of this Rule reminds the prosecutor of the importance of these
obligations in connection with the unique dangers of improper
extrajudicial statements in a criminal case. In addition,
section (e) of this Rule requires a prosecutor to exercise
reasonable care to prevent persons assisting or associated with
the prosecutor from making improper extrajudicial statements,
even when such persons are not under the direct supervision of
the prosecutor. Ordinarily, the reasonable care standard will
be satisfied if the prosecutor issues the appropriate cautions
to law-enforcement personnel and other relevant individuals.
[6] When a prosecutor knows of new, credible, and material
evidence creating a reasonable likelihood that a person outside
the prosecutor's jurisdiction was convicted of a crime that the
person did not commit, section (f) of this Rule requires prompt
disclosure to the court or other appropriate authority, such as
the chief prosecutor of the jurisdiction where the conviction
occurred. If the conviction was obtained in the prosecutor's
jurisdiction, section (f) of this Rule requires the prosecutor
to examine the evidence and undertake further investigation to
determine whether the defendant is in fact innocent or make
reasonable efforts to cause another appropriate authority to
undertake the necessary investigation, and to promptly disclose
the evidence to the court and, absent court-authorized delay, to
the defendant. Consistent with the objectives of Rules 19-304.2
(4.2) and 19-304.3 (4.3), disclosure to a represented defendant
must be made through the defendant's attorney, and, in the case
of an unrepresented defendant, would ordinarily be accompanied
166
by a request to a court for the appointment of an attorney to
assist the defendant in taking such legal measures as may be
appropriate.
[7] Under section (g) of this Rule, once the prosecutor
knows of clear and convincing evidence that the defendant was
convicted of an offense that the defendant did not commit, the
prosecutor must seek to remedy the conviction. Necessary steps
may include disclosure of the evidence to the defendant,
requesting that the court appoint an attorney for an
unrepresented indigent defendant and, where appropriate,
notifying the court that the prosecutor has knowledge that the
defendant did not commit the offense of which the defendant was
convicted.
[8] A prosecutor's independent judgment, made in good
faith, that the new evidence is not of such nature as to trigger
the obligations of sections (f) and (g) of this Rule, though
subsequently determined to have been erroneous, does not
constitute a violation of this Rule.
Model Rules Comparison - Rule 19-303.8 (3.8) has been rewritten
to retain elements of existing Maryland language and to
incorporate some changes from the Ethics 2000 Amendments to the
ABA Model Rules and from the 2008 amendments to ABA Model Rule
3.8. ABA Model Rule 3.8 (e) has not been adopted.
167
MARYLAND RULES OF PROCEDURE
TITLE 19 – ATTORNEYS
CHAPTER 400 – ATTORNEY TRUST ACCOUNTS
AMEND Rule 19-414 by extending from October 31, 2022 to
April 30, 2023 the deadline stated in section (d) for the Client
Protection Fund to prepare and transmit the reports required by
Code, Commercial Law Article, § 17-310 and transfer certain
funds to the State Comptroller and by adding an exception to the
initial compliance requirement in section (e), as follows:
Rule 19-414. FUNDS PRESUMED ABANDONED
(a) Definition
In this Rule, “Client Protection Fund” means the Client
Protection Fund of the Bar of Maryland.
(b) Generally
Funds deposited in an attorney’s trust account pursuant
to Rule 19-404 for the benefit of a client or other person are
presumed abandoned if: (A) the beneficial owner affirmatively
declined in writing to accept the funds, other than because of a
dispute as to the amount owed; or (B) after three years from the
date the funds were deposited or were required to be deposited
pursuant to that Rule, the attorney is unable to determine the
168
identity or location of the beneficial owner after having made
reasonable efforts to do so.
Committee note: Reasonable efforts must commence when the
attorney first has notice of a problem identifying or locating a
person who may be entitled to trust account funds or other
property held by the attorney. Reasonable efforts may include
(1) making a diligent search for any records or information in
the attorney’s file, any court file to which the attorney has
access, and any published directory, available public records,
estate records, or obituary records in a jurisdiction in which
the attorney has reason to believe the person may reside; (2)
seeking the assistance of the client and, if ethically
appropriate, other attorneys, unrepresented parties, and
witnesses in the case who may have information regarding the
name or whereabouts of the person; (3) attempting to determine
whether the person is in the custody of the Federal Bureau of
Prisons, the Maryland Department of Public Safety and
Correctional Services, or the local government of a jurisdiction
in which the attorney has reason to believe the person may
reside; (4) conducting an internet search for the person using
information possessed by the attorney; and (5) attempting to
contact the person by first-class mail, certified mail, and e-
mail.
Code, Commercial Law Article, § 17-306 declares, for
purposes of the Maryland Uniform Disposition of Abandoned
Property Act, that intangible personal property held in a
fiduciary capacity for the benefit of another person is presumed
abandoned unless, within three years after it becomes payable or
distributable, the owner has increased or decreased the
principal, accepted payment of principal or income, corresponded
in writing concerning the property, or otherwise indicated an
interest as evidenced by a memorandum on file with the
fiduciary. That is not a workable definition with respect to
attorney trust accounts. Persons who may be entitled to the
payment of attorney trust account funds would not be able to
increase or decrease the funds, and, if they correspond with the
attorney, their identity and likely their location will be
revealed. The definition in this Rule is intended to be a
reasonable and practicable one that would be acceptable to the
Comptroller.
(c) Duty of Attorney upon Presumed Abandonment
169
(1) Upon determining that attorney trust funds are presumed
abandoned pursuant to section (b) of this Rule, the attorney
shall: (A) comply with Code, Commercial Law Article, § 17-
308.2, and (B) prepare the requisite report and transmit it,
together with the funds and any non-IOLTA accrued interest, to
the State Comptroller in accordance with Code, Commercial Law
Article, §§ 17-310 and 17-312.
(2) The transmission shall be accompanied by a report filed
at the times specified and containing the information required
by Code, Commercial Law Article, § 17-310.
Cross reference: See Rule 19-301.6 regarding confidential
information.
Committee note: Code, Commercial Law Article, § 17-310(d)
anticipates an annual report covering the period July 1 through
June 30 to be filed no later than October 31.
(3) No such funds or report shall be transmitted to the
Client Protection Fund.
Committee note: For several decades, a practice was in place
for attorneys who have been unable to identify or locate persons
entitled to trust funds received by the attorney to transfer
those funds to the Client Protection Fund. The intent of this
Rule is to end that practice. The sole statutory mission of the
Client Protection Fund is to receive, investigate, and pay
claims filed by persons injured by the misconduct of attorneys,
not deal with abandoned money in attorney trust fund accounts.
See Rule 19-602 (a) and Maryland State Bar Association Committee
on Ethics, Ethics Docket 92-2 (1992), which states: “After the
property is presumed abandoned, you, as holder, are required to
file a report with the State Comptroller’s Office regarding the
property.”
(d) Transfer of Funds from Client Protection Fund
170
On or before October 31, 2022 April 30, 2023, the Client
Protection Fund shall (1) prepare the reports required by Code,
Commercial Law Article, § 17-310, and (2) transmit them,
together with all attorney trust account funds that, on or prior
to that date, were received by the Client Protection Fund and
all non-IOLTA accrued interest thereon that have not previously
been paid by the Client Protection Fund to persons lawfully
entitled to those funds, to the State Comptroller, in accordance
with Code, Commercial Law Article, §§ 17-310 and 17-312 and
applicable regulations adopted by the Comptroller.
(e) Initial Compliance with this Rule
Except as provided in section (d) of this Rule, the The
first reports under this Rule shall be filed no later than
October 31, 2022 and shall include all attorney trust funds that
qualify as abandoned as of June 30, 2022.
Committee note: Notwithstanding the provisions of this Rule,
Rule 19-407 requires attorneys to keep certain records
pertaining to the attorney’s trust accounts and to maintain
those records for at least five years after the date the record
was created.