Skip to main content
Costs, Coverage, & Insurance
Medicaid or Medicare? Private insurance or the Maryland Health Benefits Exchange? HMOs, PPOs, MCOs!? It is a lot to figure out.
If you are a current Chase Brexton Health Care patient, our Social Work and Outreach Department will help you to find what insurance coverage you may qualify for. Just fill out the form to the right to get assistance finding the right health plans for you and your loved ones!
To get help, you can contact our Social Work and Outreach Department for assistance at 410-837-2050 ext. 8813 or visit https://www.marylandhbe.com/ to apply directly for insurance.
Insurance Plans We Accept
Aetna Commercial and MCO Plans (including Aetna Better Health MCO and Aetna Medicare Advantage Plans)
Alterwood Medicare Advantage
CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield (most commercial plans, Medicare Advantage, and Carefirst Community MCO. Note: We do not accept CareFirst HPN )
Cigna Healthcare (including Cigna HealthSpring Medicare Advantage)
Humana (including Medicare Advantage)
Johns Hopkins Health Plans (including Priority Partners MCO, EHP, and Johns Hopkins Medicare Advantage)
Maryland Physicians Care
Medicaid
Medicare
Medstar MCO
MultiPlan / PHCS / Beech Street
UnitedHealthcare
Wellpoint MCO and HMO
Sliding Fee Scale
For insured and uninsured patients who have a limited household income, the sliding fee scale may help. The Chase Brexton sliding fee scale provides discounted pricing for our services.
Learn more.
Serving Patients at five Maryland Locations
(410) 837-2050
All Locations
View us on Facebook
View us on Instagram
View us on YouTube
View us on x
&copy;
2026
Chase Brexton Health Services, Inc. A registered 501(c)(3).
Chase Brexton has FTCA deemed status with respect to malpractice claims.
Privacy Policy
Notice of Non-Discrimination
Chase Brexton Health Care is a member of the Maryland Community Health System and the Mid-Atlantic Association of Community Health Centers (MACHC).
This website uses cookies to measure traffic and improve your experience. Declining tracking cookies will set a single cookie to remember your preference. You can manage your cookie preference at any time and learn more by visiting our
Privacy Policy .
Decline
Accept