Skip to main content
Judicial Branch of California
Index: All Pages
Ask for a court order to recognize your gender change
To ask the court for an order recognizing your change of gender, you first fill out court forms. You can ask for one of 3 gender markers: female, male, or nonbinary.
⚠ ️ Use different instructions if you also want to change your name . There's a different process to change your gender marker and name .
PRINT
EMAIL
Enter your email
We'll only use this email to send this link
TEXT
Enter your mobile number
Ten digit mobile number starting with the area code (e.g. 4158654200)
Select your mobile carrier
Select your mobile carrier Boost Mobile Cricket Wireless Alltel Google Fi MetroPCS AT&T Republic Wireless Sprint T-Mobile Verizon U.S. Cellular Virgin Mobile
We'll only use this mobile number to send this link
Before you start
You can update your gender marker on many identity documents without a court order
You do not need a court order to change your gender marker or sex identifier on your:
California birth certificate
California driver’s license
California marriage license (if your spouse agrees; if not, you'll need a court order)
Other states may require a court order. Also, you may not be able to use a nonbinary gender marker on some federal or out-of-state identifications.
⚠ ️ The rules regarding gender markers on US passports are currently under review. Visit this government page to read more.
Fill out forms
You will need to fill out these forms:
Petition for Recognition of Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier, Name Change, and Issuance of New Certificates (form NC-300)
Civil Case Cover Sheet (form CM-010) (some courts do not require this form)
If you are asking to change your marriage certificate, fill out Marriage License and Certificate–Attachment (form NC-312) and attach it to NC-300. If your spouse did not sign NC-312, also fill out Order to Show Cause–Issuance of New Marriage License and Certificate (form NC-325)
If you are asking to change your information on your child's birth certificate, fill out Birth Certificate for Child of Petitioner–Attachment (form NC-311) and attach it to the NC-300. If your child is 18 or older, they must also sign.
Order Recognizing Adult's Change of Gender and Sex identifier, for Name Change, and for Issuance of New Certificate (form NC-330) (fill out the boxes at the top)
💵 You will need to pay a fee when you file the forms ($435 - $450). If you can't afford the fee, fill out another form to ask for a fee waiver ↗ ️ (link opens in a new tab).
📌 If you prefer, you can use an online program to fill the forms out. You'll have to print the forms to file them with the court, or, if your court allows it, you can file them online (e-file). Check your local court's website to see if they allow e-filing.
Fill out forms online
Find out if you have any local forms to fill out
Some courts also have local forms you have to use.
Check with your court clerk’s office or your court's website , or talk to your self-help center ↗ ️ to ask if they have any local forms you need to use.
Your self-help center may also be able to review your forms before you file them.
Make Copies
Make 1 copy of all of your forms.
When you file them, the court will keep the original and return the copy to you, stamped.
Keep the copy for yourself.
Once you’ve completed the forms, you’ll file them with the court clerk.
Go back to an overview
Return to an overview of the whole process forgetting legal recognition of your gender change.
Send this page to yourself
Enter your email
We'll only use this email to send this link
Go to the next step
Get step-by-step instructions for filing your forms with the court.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
did this information help you with your case?
Great! Anything you can share about what made it helpful?
Sorry to hear that! What would make this more helpful?
Any Additional Feedback?
Email (optional)
This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
Leave this field blank
Was this helpful?
success alert banner:
Have a question about Gender recognition?
Look for a "Chat Now" button in the right bottom corner of your screen. If you don’t see it, disable any pop-up/ad blockers on your browser.