Wisconsin State Law Library
Serving the Wisconsin Supreme Court and State of Wisconsin
Skip to content
Website
Catalog
You Are Here: Home > Site Index > Legal Topics > Index > Name & Gender Marker Change
Name & Gender Marker Change
Skip to related topics, library resources, and law review articles
Forms
Name Change Petitions and Orders (WI Court System)
Portion of Judgment Regarding Surname (Divorce) (WI Court System)
Petition for Gender Change on Wisconsin Birth Certificate for Adult or Minor 14 or Older (WI Court System)
Order on Petition for Gender Change on Wisconsin Birth Certificate (WI Court System)
Report of Legal Name Change F-05021 (WI Dept. of Health Services)
Your county may have forms specific to this topic. See Forms by County or contact your county's Clerk of Court.
Name Changes and Confidential Name Changes (WI Court System)
Basic Steps to Handling a Name Change (WI Court System)
How
Do I Change My Name? (WI Court System Self-Help Center)
How
Do I Correct or Amend a Birth Certificate? (WI Court System Self-Help
Center)
Name Change Guides from Wisconsin Counties (WI State Law Library)
Name Change for
Driver's License, ID card, or Certificate of Title (WI Dept. of Transportation)
Includes: Acceptable Documents for Proof of Name Change
Professional / Occupational Licenses
Attorneys
State Bar of WI Attorney Profile
WI Dept. of Safety & Professional Services
For individuals licensed by DSPS, you may change your license name & address online.
Social Security (U.S. Social Security Administration)
Fact sheet lists the documents you will need to provide for a name change.
Taxes (U.S. Internal Revenue Service)
U.S. Passport
(U.S. Dept. of State)
Gender Marker Updates
Forms
Petition for Gender Change on Wisconsin Birth Certificate for Adult or Minor 14 or Older (WI Court System)
Order on Petition for Gender Change on Wisconsin Birth Certificate (WI Court System)
Report of Legal Name change F-05021 (WI Dept. of Health Services)
Confidential Name Change F-05021C (WI Dept. of Health Services)
Other forms from the WI Dept. of Health Services can be obtained by calling 608-266-1939 or emailing DHSVitalRecordsFormOrders@wi.gov
Passports: Selecting your gender marker (US Dept. of State)
Social Security: Change sex designation (US Social Security Administration)
Trans Law Help Wisconsin
Legal clinics
assisting individuals with name and gender corrections.
Legal Guide, Trans Law Help
Name and gender marker changes, Social Security Administration, UW passport, driver's license, and other vital record updates.
Name Change Project, Transgender Legal Defense & Education Fund
Pro bono legal name change services to low-income TGNCNB (transgender, gender non-conforming, non-binary) people.
Changing birth certificate sex designations (Lambda Legal)
50 state survey of laws.
Name and gender change laws in Wisconsin (Nat'l Center for Transgender Equality)
"What is the legal standard for changing the sex marker on a birth record?" (Wisconsin Journal of Family Law, April 2021 v.38 no.2)
Not available online. Ask a librarian for help accessing this article.
The Law (Additional statutes, regulations
& opinions may apply to your specific situation.)
WI Statutes: s. 69.15(4) "Changes of fact on birth records" Name change and sex designation
WI Statute s. 341.335 "Notice of change of address, name or vehicle color"
WI Statutes: s. 786.36 - 786.37 "Changing Names, Court Procedure"
Search for more
statutes, regulations & opinions.
County Resources
Recommended links from our County Resources database : Legal Assistance
Name Change Project, Transgender Legal Defense & Education Fund
Pro bono legal name change services to low-income TGNCNB (transgender, gender non-conforming, non-binary) people. Trans Law Help
Provides assistance to the transgender community by helping individuals obtain corrected identity documents (birth certificates, driver's licenses, passports, etc.) reflecting their authentic name and gender. Transgender and Non-binary services
Includes name change workshops for transgender, nonbinary, and gender non-conforming individuals and assistance with filing forms at the Courthouse.
Court Forms
Confidential Name Change Procedure for an Adult or Minor 14 or Older (Dane Clerk of Court)
Scroll down to middle of page for guide and forms.
Guides
Instructions and forms for filing a petition for change of gender on birth certificate (Manitowoc Clerk of Court)
Name Change (Milwaukee Justice Center (MJC))
Name Change Procedure for Dane County ? Adults (Dane Clerk of Court)
Name Change Procedure for Dane County ? Minors (Dane Clerk of Court)
Serving documents to the other party (Milwaukee Milwaukee Justice Center)
Service of process information for divorce, name change, family court cases, and small claims
Ask a Question
Related Topics
Legal Assistance
Public Records
Library Resources
Methods of Practice: Wisconsin Practice Series
Nolo's Encyclopedia of Everyday Law
Your Little Legal Companion
Journals & Legal Databases
HeinOnline
Learning Center
Hiring a Lawyer
Finding Forms
Introduction to Law
Close
Ask a Question
Top of Page