UN stoppable care for kids
Enter keyword to Search
Close Search
0 Results
View
Results
View All Results
Transgender
Gender-affirming care statement
Updated July 29, 2025 l 11:45 a.m.
After much consideration and based upon current understanding of federal and state directives, a decision was made on July 29, 2025 to cease providing Gender-Affirming Care at Children's Hospital of Richmond at VCU for youth under age 19. As has been the case with other children's hospitals and academic medical centers across the country, this decision comes after a thoughtful and thorough assessment that revealed no other viable options at this time.
We recognize how difficult this change is for many of our patients, families, team members and community members. Our care teams remain committed to their patient families. As we wind down these services over the next 90 days , our care teams will provide support and assist with safe transfer of care for existing patients, considering each youth's needs with compassion and clinical judgement.
While we must end Gender-Affirming Care services for youth under age 19, our doors remain open to all patients and their families for all other health care needs.
Additional information for current patients
If you need to speak to a member of your health care team or have questions, contact your provider via MyChart or call (804) 828-CHOR (2467) .
We have increased access to mental health services for patients impacted by this change. If you need mental health services and your child is not in crisis, call our Virginia Treatment Center for Children at (804) 828-3137 .
If your child is in crisis, call 911 , go to the nearest emergency room or contact your local community services board.
Gender-affirming care frequently asked questions
July 29, 2025 l 11:45 a.m.
Expand All
Why are Gender-Affirming Care services ending?
After much consideration and based upon current understanding of federal and state directives, a decision was made on July 29, 2025 to cease providing Gender-Affirming Care at Children's Hospital of Richmond at VCU for youth under age 19. As has been the case with other children's hospitals and academic medical centers across the country, this decision comes after a thoughtful and thorough assessment that revealed no other viable options at this time.
We recognize how difficult this change is for many of our patients, families, team members and community members. Our care teams remain committed to their patient families. As we wind down these services over the next 90 days , our teams will provide support and assist with safe transfer of care for existing patients, considering each youth's needs with compassion and clinical judgement.
While we must end Gender-Affirming Care services for youth under age 19, our doors remain open to all patients and their families for all other health care needs.
What services will end when the program closes?
Gender-Affirming Care services, including medications, for youth under age 19.
Do patients have other options for Gender-Affirming Care?
Our care team remains committed to their patients and families. As we wind down these services over the next 90 days, we'll provide support and safe transfer of care for existing patients, considering each youth's needs with compassion and clinical judgement.
Are other services at CHoR available for LGBTQIA+ youth?
While we must end Gender-Affirming Care services for youth under age 19, our doors remain open to all patients and their families for all other health care needs.
How can I access mental health support for my child and family?
We recognize the impact this change has on our patients and families.
We have increased access to mental health services for patients impacted by this change. If you need mental health services and your child is not in crisis, call our Virginia Treatment Center for Children at (804) 828-3137 . If your child is in crisis, call 911 , go to the nearest emergency room or contact your local community services board.
Expand All
I'm a current patient and need to talk to my provider. How can I contact them?
All current patients will receive a message via MyChart and a letter with more information. We are also calling families to discuss next steps. Current patients can also reach the program by messaging their provider in MyChart or calling (804) 828-CHOR (2467).
What national resources are available to support my child and family?
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
Call: 988 (available 24/7)
Trans Lifeline
1-877-565-8860 (Not a 24/7 service)
Trevor Project
1-866-488-7386 (available 24/7)
Text START to 678-678
Gender resources
He She Ze and We
He She Ze and We serves families with transgender loved ones through support, education and advocacy.
Side by Side
Dedicated to creating supportive communities where Virginia's LGBTQ youth can define themselves, belong and flourish.
Gender Spectrum
Global online community for gender-expansive teens, their families and support professionals to connect, collaborate and find resources.
Family Acceptance Project
A research, intervention, education and policy initiative that works to prevent health and mental health risks for LGBTQ children and youth including homelessness, suicide and HIV in context of their family, cultures and faith communities.
Related stories
Locations
View all locations
Request an appointment
(804) 828-CHOR (2467)
Request an appointment
Donate
Find a provider
VCU Health MyChart
Contact us