An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Here's how you know
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government
organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS
A lock icon or https:// means you've safely connected
to the official website. Share sensitive information
only on official, secure websites.
This page, Suffolk Probate and Family Court, is
offered by
Probate and Family Court
Massachusetts Court System
Show more
Suffolk Probate and Family Court
Address
24 New Chardon St., Boston , MA 02114
Directions
Satellite Office
Chelsea District Court, 120 Broadway, Chelsea, MA 02150
Directions
Phone
Register's Office
(617) 788-8301
Probation Department
(617) 788-8210
MassRelay: Dial
711
more
less
contact info
Online
For all Suffolk Probate & Family Court inquiries, please go to:
Suffolk Probate and Family Court virtual registry
Fax
Register's Office
(617) 788-8962
Probation Department
(617) 788-8957
Public WiFi
Transit friendly
Wheelchair Accessible
View daily list (PDF)
Guide to remote hearings
Public access to Suffolk Probate and Family Court
Get assistance in the virtual registry
Search court dockets, calendars, and case information
Sign up for civil court date text reminders (PDF)
Forms
Filing fees
Leaflet | Source: MassGIS
Get Directions to Suffolk Probate and Family Court in Google Maps
Details
Overview
This court serves Boston, Brighton, Charlestown, Chelsea, Dorchester, East Boston, Hyde Park, Jamaica Plain, Revere, Roslindale, South Boston, and Winthrop.
For all Suffolk Probate and Family Court inquiries, please go to the Suffolk Probate and Family Court Virtual Registry.
Hours
Main Office
Monday - Friday:
Satellite Office
Tuesday - Thursday:
Parking
There is no public parking available at this courthouse. Parking at your own expense is available in the vicinity of the courthouse at parking lots and garages and metered spaces on the streets.
Public Transportation
You can reach the courthouse using the MBTA via the subway using the Orange, Green, Blue or Red line. You can also reach the vicinity of the court using the Commuter Rail to North Station.
It is strongly recommended that you check with the MBTA's website to make sure you receive their updated routes. They offer a Trip Planner, which enables users to get personalized recommendations.
Services
Receive assistance in the virtual registry .
Get legal help at the courthouse from the court clinic .
Kinship Navigator Program Probate and Family Court Collaboration Project
eFiling in the Probate and Family Court
Sign up for eReminder notifications for your court events
Public Wi-Fi is available at this courthouse.
Accessibility
Please contact the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act) coordinator below for more information regarding accessibility at this court location.
Tanya Brussa-Pagan
Phone: ( 617) 788-8350
Fax: ( 617) 788-8962
Email: tanya.brussa-pagan@jud.state.ma.us
More info
Judge's Lobby
Hon. Janine Rivers, First Justice
Register's Office
Stephanie L. Everett, Esq., Register
Probation Department
Edwin P. Welch, Chief Probation Officer
Upcoming Events
No upcoming events scheduled
See past events
More locations
Massachusetts Court System Locations
Annulment Locations
Actions Filed Under the Uniform Adult Guardianship & Protective Proceedings Jurisdiction Act Locations
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
Yes
No
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
How can we improve the page? *
Please do not include personal or contact information.
You will not get a response
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact the Probate and Family Court . Please limit your input to 500 characters.
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Probate and Family Court .
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Probate and Family Court .
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you need assistance, please contact the Probate and Family Court .
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
Feedback