Skip to main content
Online Resources
Name Change Resources
Legal Aid of Nebraska provides education and information to those seeking to advocate for and represent themselves. With the resources and links below, we hope to increase personal agency in the legal process - making civil matters easier to navigate and resolve.
Click here for our Guide to Name Changes in Nebraska: A Step-by-Step Process . This name change process is not intended for name changes due to marriage, which has a separate process. Information about changing your name after getting married can be found here .
There are also different steps and different form for an adult (over the age of 19 in Nebraska) or a minor.
Adult Name Change, 19+
Each district court has specific local rules that may apply in your case. Check with the clerk of the district court in your county. If you fail to follow the local rules, you may not be able to finish your case.
The procedure for legally changing your name is somewhat complicated. It is up to you to decide whether and how you use a lawyer in your case. The law allows you to do your own name change, which is also known as proceeding pro se (pronounced “pro-say”). Another option is to hire a lawyer to do only part of your case, this is called Limited Scope Representation .
This packet of forms and instructions is intended for an adult who wishes to change his or her name, and has resided in the county where the Petition is to be filed for at least one year before filing the Petition.
Adult Name Change Forms
Child Name Change
These forms and instructions are intended only for cases where:
A parent wishes to change a minor child’s or children’s name(s);
The petitioning adult and the minor child(ren) have/has resided in the county where the Petition is to be filed for at least one year before filing the Petition;
The minor child(ren)’s other parent consents to the change of the minor child(ren)’s name(s), or you know the other parent will not contest the action to change the minor child(ren)’s name(s), or the address of the minor child(ren)’s other parent is unknown.
YOU CANNOT USE THESE FORMS IF:
You do not know if the minor child(ren)’s other parent will consent to the change of the minor child(ren)’s name(s); or
You know the minor child(ren)’s other parent will contest the change of the minor child(ren)’s name(s).
Child Name Change Forms
Nebraska Supreme Court Self-Help Center
Information and forms for filing for a name change in Nebraska
Big numbers, personal impact:
Requests for assistance in 2025
19,200
Cases closed in 2025
12,878
Economic impact
$16,348,129
Testimonials
Nancy
“My attorney spent a lot of time with me to explain what was actually going on.”
Read Nancy's story
Angie
“When you don’t know where to go — Legal Aid is there,"
Read Angie's story
Breanne
“Her support truly was exactly what I needed,"
Read Breanne's story
Monica
“When you leave, you don’t think you have anyone to help and then you realize there is a whole network of people supporting you. I think it is important for people to realize that,"
Read Monica's story
Go to Previous Slide Go to Next Slide
Apply for Help Online
Call for Help
Donate
MENU CLOSE