Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-1.5
Current as of January 01, 2026 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
Sec. 1.5 . (a) The following definitions apply throughout this section:
(1) “ Lifetime sex or violent offender ” means a person convicted of an offense that currently requires a person to register
as a sex or violent offender for life under IC 11-8-8-19 , regardless of the date the conviction was entered against the person or whether
the person was or is required to register as a sex offender for life.
(2) “Local law enforcement authority” has the meaning set forth in IC 11-8-8-2 .
(b) A person may not petition for a change of name under this chapter if the person:
(1) is confined to a department of correction facility; or
(2) except as provided in subsection (c), is a lifetime sex or violent offender.
(c) This subsection does not apply to a person who is currently required to register
as a sex offender. Notwithstanding subsection (b), a person may petition for a change of name based
on a sincerely held religious belief.
(d) A person described in subsection (c) shall provide written notice of the petition
for name change to the local law enforcement authority in the:
(1) county of conviction; and
(2) county where the person resides.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-1.5 - last updated January 01, 2026 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/in/title-34-civil-law-and-procedure/in-code-sect-34-28-2-1-5/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Indiana Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
10th Circuit Court of Appeals Proposes Rule To Require Certification of Filings Using Artificial Intelligence
Indiana Court Says DoorDash May Have Encouraged Distracted Driving
When Campaign Donations Become Illegal
A Legal Bodyslam? Federal Judge Approves ESPN’s Motion To Intervene in Civil Suit Against WWE
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
Privacy Preference center
Opt-Out Request Honored
Privacy Preference center
Your Privacy Choices
Privacy Preference Center
Your Privacy Choices
As part of your use of our website, you may have provided personal information to us in order to use our products and services. If applicable under law, you may have a right to opt-out of this information being “sold” or “shared” with third parties unrelated to the products and services and you also may have rights to delete, access, correct or manage your personal information submitted to our site using an email address or account. You may elect to exercise these rights through the form linked below.
Opt-Out Form
Privacy Preference Center
Privacy Preference Center
We use cookies and other tracking technologies to provide you with a personalized experience on our sites, such as showing you content and ads that are relevant to your interests. We may need to disclose certain information collected through those tracking technologies, like your IP address or other information that may be deemed “personal information” under certain state privacy laws, to our advertising partners or other technology providers, in order to provide such relevant content and advertising. That disclosure could be considered a “sale,” “share” or “targeted advertising” under applicable law. You can choose to opt out of having your personal information disclosed to our partners for these activities by sliding the toggle above to the left and then clicking on the “Confirm My Choices” button, or by visiting this website with an opt-out preference signal, such as Global Privacy Control.Opting out will not prevent you from seeing ads, but may result in ads or content that could be less relevant to your interests. Additionally, we may still disclose your personal information to service providers and/or processors in accordance with law and our privacy policy. Please note that in some cases supplemental terms may also apply to the data collected and shared through cookies and other tracking technologies, and these supplemental terms can be found linked in the footer of the applicable website. You can read more about our privacy practices, including managing opt-outs in your email or account settings, by visiting our privacy policy, linked in the footer.
Cookie List
Consent Leg.Interest
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
Clear checkbox label label
Apply Cancel
Confirm My Choices Allow All
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat