0
ACCESS TO THE LEGAL SYSTEM
JUSTICE FOR THOSE MOST VULNERABLE
IMPACT FAR BEYOND ONE PERSON
Donate
The scales of justice don’t balance themselves. Please consider donating so that we may be better prepared for the challenges of our work.
Donate Now
Get assistance
SLC provides legal representation in civil legal matters such as education advocacy, disability issues, LGBTQ+ equality, rights of people experiencing homelessness, and other civil rights. We primarily represent low income people.
Apply Here
Volunteer
We welcome pro bono attorneys, law students, and non law students to assist us. Your time and support provides excellent hands on experience and helps create meaningful systemic change.
Learn More
URGENT UPDATE regarding THE PASSPORT BAN
On Thursday, November 6, 2025, the Supreme Court ruled that the Trump Administration is free to enforce their passport policy that precludes transgender and non-binary individuals from obtaining passports that reflect the gender marker aligned with their gender identity. The unsigned decision from the conservatives on the Court granted the Administration’s emergency request to “stay” the district judge’s June 17th injunction of the discriminatory passport policy while litigation continues in lower courts.
This is NOT OVER. However, at this time, the State Department will not be releasing new, renewed, or amended passports with a sex marker other than what the department believes to be the applicant’s assigned sex at birth. For more information about this development, read the full statement here .
statementS from SLC’s trans rights director on the ACTIONS BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TARGETING the TRANSGENDER community
January 31, 2025 Statement: click here
February 26, 2025 Statement: click here
Please share these statements with anyone who may benefit from clarity about the recent anti-trans Executive Orders and other federal government actions targeting the trans community, the status of the lawsuits challenging those actions, or some words of hope and support from SLC's Trans Rights Director, Simone Chriss. You can download the PDFs of the Statements by visiting the links above.
These Statements break down: (a) what Executive Orders are and how they function; (b) what each of the anti-trans Executive Orders issued thus far actually seeks to do; (c) the status of the legal challenges to the anti-trans actions Executive Orders; (d) the status of gender marker amendments on state and federal documents (including the FLHSMV’s recent actions involving Florida driver’s licenses), and (e) how we can continue to resist and support one another during this dark time in our nation's history, and assurances that we will not stop fighting for the rights of Florida's transgender community.⠀ ⠀
"To my transgender clients, colleagues, and friends:
In the face of efforts to erase, the greatest act of resistance is to exist. As a proud member of Florida's LGBTQ+ community, and as a civil rights attorney who has had the privilege and honor of fighting for the rights of transgender Floridians for nearly a decade, I promise you I am not going anywhere, and we will not stop holding the government accountable.
Florida has been ground zero for testing the very same anti-trans measures that the federal government now seeks to implement – we have lived through this, we have fought back, we have supported each other, we have survived, and we will continue to do so. ⠀ ⠀
In this country, there have always been, and will always be, those who want to impede the march towards justice and equality. There will always be those who, whether out of fear or greed or sheer bigotry, believe that basic human rights and dignity are only owed to some. And these people have always tried to exclude groups of people from the American promise of 'liberty and justice for all.' We have never let that stop us from marching forward, pushing America to live up to its ideals, and creating a more just and loving world. We are on the right side of history. Love, truth, decency, compassion, and equality will always trump hatred and bigotry." ⠀ ⠀
In solidarity, ⠀ ⠀
- Simone Chriss, Director of SLC's Trans Rights Initiative ⠀
UNDERSTANDING THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT’S CONTINUED MEASURES TARGETING THE TRANSGENDER COMMUNITY
“Right now, for many people, the courage to exist and to live authentically, is an act of resistance. For others, remaining vigilant and informed is an act of resistance. Refusing to succumb to hopelessness, fear, apathy, overwhelm, and the information overload that is designed to numb us and foster apathy is resisting .”
In solidarity, ⠀ ⠀
- Simone Chriss, Director of SLC's Trans Rights Initiative ⠀
Register for one of the UPCOMING COMMUNITY TOWN HALLS ON THE ANTI-TRANS EXECUTIVE ORDERs
We know many members of the community have questions about what the federal government’s recent anti-trans measures, including the barrage of Executive Orders, mean and how they may impact you, your loved ones, and your community. That's why we're holding an ongoing series of COMMUNITY TOWN HALLS via Zoom. (We had more than 300 people register for our last two Community Town Halls! Don’t miss out!)
We want to make sure every member of the community understands: (a) WHAT the cruel anti-trans federal government actions and Executive Orders mean and how they are being implemented; (b) the status of the legal challenges to these discriminatory measures; and (c) all the ways we can PROTECT our rights, DEFEND our freedoms, RESIST in the face of oppression, and SUPPORT each other as we navigate this dark and demoralizing time in our country's history.
Registration is required (for the safety of the presenter and participants) - upon completing a very quick registration form that is only accessible to SLC attorney Simone Chriss, you will receive email updates each time a new Community Town Hall is scheduled and announced, and you will be given the opportunity to attend and the Zoom link.
You can use the QR code on the flyer, or visit this link: https://forms.gle/vdCRuVH8jM5kK6BSA
Remember: Our existence, and our persistence, are acts of resistance. They want us to be confused, overwhelmed, divided and afraid. When we are informed and united, we take away much of their power.
Support SLC by rocking this shirt by Lisa Kay Designs! Shown here in purple, this shirt comes in 4 other colors, in a unisex cut with a generous fit. A portion of every sale will be donated directly to Southern Legal Counsel.
Get yours now: lisakaydesigns.com…
In pursuit of justice, SLC has pioneered innovative legal strategies that have broadly impacted the people of this state. Across SLC’s history, we have obtained precedential opinions in a variety of legal areas, including constitutional law, employment discrimination, special education, rights of homeless persons, and Sunshine laws. SLC influences the development of the law and paves the way for future civil rights plaintiffs.
NEWS
Eleventh Circuit rules Daytona Beach ordinance criminalizing requests for help is unconstitutional
The three-judge panel found in Scott v. City of Daytona Beach that the city’s 2019 ordinance was based on the content of a person’s speech and that the city’s stated public health interests could be addressed by less speech-restrictive means.
Read more &#8594;
SLC argues for sustainable, clean energy infrastructure post-hurricanes
Southern Legal Counsel, Inc., LatinoJustice PRLDEF, and American Civil Liberties Union of Puerto Rico have filed an amicus curiae (friend of the court) brief in a case with broad implications for the energy future of hurricane-prone areas such as Florida.
Read more &#8594;
Comité Diálogo Ambiental v. FEMA
Read more &#8594;
SLC Executive Director Jodi Siegel receives award named for her mentor and predecessor
A lifetime of advocacy came full circle March 7.
Read more &#8594;
Read More News
Follow our journey online
Non-Discrimination Statement:
The benefits and services of Southern Legal Counsel, Inc. are provided without regard to race, creed, color, ethnicity, national origin, disability, age, sex, political beliefs, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, marital or family status. Southern Legal Counsel is firmly committed to a policy of equal opportunity in all aspects of employee relations, including employment, salary administration, employee development, promotion and transfer.
Supported by grants from: