Background image: THP - Transgender Health Program
Your partner in inclusive, affirming health care
The OHSU Transgender Health Program can connect you with international leaders in care for the transgender and gender-diverse communities.
Learn more.
For patients
Request services
Please fill out an online form:
I am seeking services for myself.
I am seeking services for someone else.
Other questions and concerns
Contact us at:
503-494-7970
transhealth@ohsu.edu
Refer a patient
Please complete our Request for Transgender Health Services referral form and fax with relevant medical records to 503-346-6854 .
Learn more on our For Health Care Professionals page.
You are invited to our quarterly Grand Rounds. See dates, topics and how to join .
Support the program
Help the Transgender Health Program build access to inclusive, affirming health care.
Make a gift
At the OHSU Transgender Health Program, we know that high-quality health care in affirming, welcoming environments can be lifesaving.
The Transgender Health Program — THP for short — provides support, information and advocacy. We can connect you with OHSU providers who are international leaders in caring for gender-diverse patients of all ages. We offer therapies that aren't available elsewhere in the Northwest.
We can connect you with OHSU providers for any health care need. (We do not make appointments or directly provide care.)
Our welcoming professionals and peers provide information, support and education.
We can link you to family-centered services for children and teens.
You can join us as a volunteer or supporter.
We train OHSU employees and healthcare professionals in the community.
Contact us
503-494-7970
transhealth@ohsu.edu
Trying to reach a clinic?
If you need to reach a specific OHSU clinic to check on your referral, for example, or because you’re running late for your appointment, please call the clinic directly. If you don’t see the number you need below, call OHSU’s main number: 503-494-8311 .
Primary care clinics
You do not need a referral for a primary care appointment.
Portland area: See our Primary Care site to look for a provider who lists transgender care among specialties and/or practices at one of the locations below. When you call, please let the clinic know you are seeking care through the Transgender Health Program.
Outside the Portland area: We encourage you to seek primary care in your community. Fill out our service request form if you need help finding a gender-affirming doctor.
Locations:
Beaverton
Gabriel Park (Southwest Portland)
Marquam Hill
Orenco Station (Hillsboro)
Richmond (Southeast Portland)
Scappoose
South Waterfront
Specialty clinics
Dermatology: 503-418-3376 (laser hair removal and other skin- and hair-related needs)
Doernbecher Gender Clinic: 503-346-0640 (care for children and teens)
Endocrinology (adult): 503-494-3273 (specialty hormone therapy)
Ear, Nose and Throat: 503-494-5947 (Adam’s apple reduction, vocal surgery)
Facial Reconstructive and Plastic Surgery: 503-494-5678 (facial gender-confirmation surgery)
Fertility: 503-418-3700
Gynecology: 503-418-4500 (gynecologic care, hysterectomy, oophorectomy)
NW Clinic for Voice & Swallowing: 503-494-5947 (voice and communication therapy)
Obstetrics: 503-418-4500
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery: 503-494-6687 (Adam’s apple reduction, body contouring, electrolysis, facial gender-confirmation surgery, top/chest surgery, phalloplasty)
Urology: 503-346-1500 (metoidioplasty, orchiectomy, vaginoplasty, vulvoplasty)
Dedicated clinics for gender-diverse care
OHSU's Transgender Gynecology Clinic offers a gender-neutral space for your comfort. Referrals and appointments are made through the OHSU Center for Women's Health, but the space is not in the center. Call 503-418-4500 to request an appointment.
The Doernbecher Gender Clinic offers expert, family-centered care for children and teens.
Learn more
About the Transgender Health Program
Patient guide to gender-affirming care
Primary care
For parents, children and teens
For health care professionals
Classes and events
Resources
FAQ
Terms and tips
Insurance information
Volunteer opportunities
Costs for services
Patients: The THP serves as an umbrella for gender-affirming services at OHSU. We don’t charge for support, information or patient-education classes. OHSU clinics you may visit set their own charges, though. See our insurance page to learn more about payment options.
Professionals: Health care professionals in the community can request training on providing affirming, welcoming care. See our rate sheet for details on fees.
What makes us different
Expertise: OHSU providers who work with the THP specialize in gender-affirming health care. They treat hundreds of patients a year. Many are international experts who publish studies and who speak across the nation and overseas.
Care for teens and children: The providers at our Doernbecher Gender Clinic locations offer years of experience treating gender-diverse young people.
Team-based care: OHSU providers work together to make sure you get the care you need. Our specialists meet every month to pool their expertise on complex cases.
Inclusion: OHSU is dedicated to inclusive care and to offering welcoming facilities. The THP and OHSU’s Center for Diversity and Inclusion offer staff training that includes culturally competent LGBTQ+ care. You will also find gender-neutral restrooms across our campuses.
Outreach and education
Outreach care: We provide care for transgender and gender-diverse children and teens in seven cities across Oregon and southwest Washington. Contact Doernbecher Pediatric Endocrinology at 503-494-3273 for locations and times.
Patient education: See our Education and Events page .
Training: Our staff offers training in gender-affirming care to medical providers across the Northwest. See our For Health Care Professionals page for details. OHSU providers also speak nationally and internationally to expand access to gender-affirming treatment.
Grand rounds for health care professionals: Join quarterly online sessions on issues generated by and important to the transgender and gender-diverse community. Learn more on our For Health Care Professionals page.
Community involvement: We work with community partners — taking part in health fairs and other events, for example — to improve access to inclusive health care.
Collaboration: We confer monthly with other transgender health programs. OHSU created the Academic Gender Center Coordinators’ Consultation so participants can share information to improve care.
Get involved
Volunteering: Help shape our program through volunteer opportunities .
Feedback: Share concerns, success stories or anything else at transhealth@ohsu.edu .
Research and innovations
Our providers are also researchers seeking improvements in care. They publish papers in academic journals and share findings through the Transgender Health Program Research Collaborative started by OHSU. Among our innovations:
OHSU has databases to track and improve outcomes.
OHSU pioneered a physical therapy program for vaginoplasty patients.
We have researched how testosterone therapy affects voices, leading to recommendations for voice therapy.