Skip to content
2SLGBTQIA+ Legal Clinic Dev Comms Manager 2026-06-01T16:12:43-07:00
2SLGBTQIA+ Legal Clinic
We provide free 30-minute phone consultations with volunteer attorneys for 2SLGBTQIA+ individuals across Washington State. Appointments are held on the 1st Friday and 3rd Monday of each month.
These consultations can help you:
Understand your legal issue,
Learn about your options and next steps,
Get help filling out legal forms,
Receive legal resources or referrals.
Please note: Our volunteer attorneys cannot represent you in court or handle your case directly.
Get the Intake Form
How to get a consultation
Make sure your issue is a civil legal matter.
We are only able to help with civil legal issues, like housing, family law, name or gender marker changes, employment, or immigration—not criminal cases. If you’re unsure what type of issue you have, check our FAQ section or contact us for help.
Fill out our Legal Support Request form.
This form helps us collect your contact information and a few details about your legal concern. Once you submit it, we’ll send you a confirmation email with the estimated wait time for the next steps.
Complete the full intake form after we’ve processed the Support Request.
After we review your request, you’ll receive an email with a link to our Legal Consultation Intake Form. In this form, you will:
• Share basic information about yourself (for grant and reporting purposes only — it won’t affect your access to services)
• Choose a preferred clinic date and time
• Select the legal issue that best describes your situation
• Describe your legal issue in detail
• Let us know if there are any upcoming deadlines
• List anyone else involved in the issue (the “adverse party”)
Wait for your appointment confirmation.
Once your intake is reviewed and we schedule your consultation; we’ll send you an email with your appointment details. Once your intake is reviewed and we schedule your consultation; we’ll send you an email with your appointment details.
(Optional) Share documents with us.
If you have papers or other info you would like the attorney to review ahead of time, you can email them to us using the case-specific email address we’ll provide in your appointment confirmation email.
Get the Intake Form
Frequently Asked Questions
2SLGBTQIA+ Clinic
How long are the legal consultations? Dev Comms Manager 2025-08-26T14:37:51-07:00
How long are the legal consultations?
Each consultation lasts 30 minutes . In some cases, we may be able to offer longer appointments if needed.
What legal issues can volunteer attorneys help with? Dev Comms Manager 2025-10-14T17:58:51-07:00
What legal issues can volunteer attorneys help with?
We assist with civil legal issues — not criminal cases. Below are the main areas we cover:
Consumer
Bankruptcy and debt help
Credit and loan problems
Contracts and warranties
Unfair sales or collection practices
Education
School access or discipline
Issues in public or private schools
Student financial aid
Employment
Job discrimination
Wage theft or unpaid wages
Tax and EITC questions
Agricultural worker rights
Family
Divorce or separation
Custody and visitation
Adoption, name change, guardianship
Domestic abuse and parental rights
Juvenile
Emancipation
Minor guardianship
Neglect or abuse issues
Juvenile delinquency
Health
Medicaid/Medicare
Disability or long-term care
Private health insurance
Children’s health coverage
Housing
Tenant rights and evictions
Public housing issues
Discrimination in housing
Mortgage or foreclosure problems
Income & Benefits
Social Security (SSDI/SSI)
Unemployment or Veterans benefits
Food stamps (SNAP), TANF
Individual Rights
Gender marker/name changes
Disability or mental health rights
Civil rights or discrimination
Immigration/naturalization
Expungement of criminal records
Other Legal Issues (Misc.)
Wills and estate planning
Protection orders
Personal injury or medical malpractice
Legal help for nonprofits
What issues are outside the scope of this program? Dev Comms Manager 2025-10-14T17:58:30-07:00
What issues are outside the scope of this program?
Volunteer attorneys cannot :
Represent you in court
Help with criminal law (e.g., arrests, trials, warrants, charges, etc.)
Provide help with non-legal matters (e.g., filling out benefits applications)
Do you offer language, safety or disability accommodations? Dev Comms Manager 2025-08-26T14:38:01-07:00
Do you offer language, safety or disability accommodations?
Yes! We are committed to making our services accessible.
We offer:
Phone consultations (with other options available if needed)
Interpreters for most languages, including ASL
Disability accommodations
Support for people without a safe space to talk
Just let us know your needs when you fill out the Legal Support Request Form or contact us directly.
Do the volunteer attorneys understand 2SLGBTQIA+ issues? Dev Comms Manager 2025-10-14T17:58:13-07:00
Do the volunteer attorneys understand 2SLGBTQIA+ issues?
Many of our volunteer attorneys are members of the 2S LGBTQ IA + communit y . They also receive special ized train ing on legal issues commonly faced by 2SLGBTQIA+ individuals , ensuring a supportive and affirming experience .
Does my legal issue have to relate to my 2SLGBTQIA+ identity? Dev Comms Manager 2025-10-14T17:59:50-07:00
Does my legal issue have to relate to my 2SLGBTQIA+ identity?
No. We are here to support 2SLGBTQIA+ community members with any civil legal issue, whether or not it’s directly related to your identity.
How do I contact QLaw Foundation for help or questions? Dev Comms Manager 2025-08-26T14:37:28-07:00
How do I contact QLaw Foundation for help or questions?
You can reach us by:
Phone: (206) 483-2725 ext. 102
Online Contact Form.
Please note that this is not a hotline . If you cannot reach us, please leave a detailed voicemail and a staff member will respond within 2-3 business days.
Donate
Services
Volunteer
Contact
P.O. Box 18181
Seattle, WA 98118
Who We Are
about us
staff
board
Services
legal clinic
attorney referral network
peer navigator
Get Involved
volunteer
join the referral network
More
events
contact us
diversity prints
Privacy Policy | My Health My Data Act (MHMDA) Policy | SMS Policy & Terms of Use
Page load link
English Spanish Arabic Chinese (Traditional) Chinese (Simplified) Dutch French German Italian Portuguese Russian Somali Vietnamese
en
Go to Top