UnityPoint Clinic LGBTQ+ Health
2103 Ingersoll Avenue
Des Moines, IA 50312
515-279-6424
(Main Phone)
Current Hours: Closed
Information
Number of patients waiting reflects the current number of patients waiting to be seen. This number changes frequently and is not exact.
Hours of Operation
Monday: Closed
Tuesday: 5:00 PM - 8:00 PM
Wednesday: Closed
Thursday: Closed
Friday: Closed
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed
View Map
UnityPoint Clinic LGBTQ+ Health
Our Clinic
We dedicate ourselves to supporting every patient and addressing their unique care needs. While our clinic welcomes everyone seeking primary care, the team at our LGBTQ+ Clinic has special training to create a welcoming and reassuring environment for all patients, including those who identify as part of the LGBTQ+ community.
Your Care Team
Many of our team members and providers have received Safe Zone training to ensure our patients are receiving care in an environment where they feel seen, heard and understood. Our compassionate team is dedicated to providing quality care and exceptional experiences to improve outcomes for each and every patient we serve.
Providers at this Location
Kelley O'Reilly, DO
Hospital Medicine
Richard Robus, MD
Pediatrics
Schedule Online
Matthew Molin, DO
Family Medicine
Schedule Online
Angie Knoblauch, DO
Internal Medicine
John Carstensen, MD
Internal Medicine
View Providers at This Location
Services We Provide
Primary care and routine exams
Vaccinations
Routine cancer screening
Contraception management
STI prevention, testing and treatment
Pharmacist on-site in clinic
Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP)
Gender-affirming hormone therapy (19 years and older)
Pre and post gender-affirming surgery support (19 years and older)
Gender-affirming voice therapy
On-site pharmacy, lab and radiology
Frequently Asked Questions
Do you have a policy that protects LGBTQ patients?
UnityPoint Health - Des Moines and UnityPoint Clinic do not tolerate discrimination. Our office appreciates the diversity of human beings and does not discriminate based on race, age, religion, ability, marital status, sexual orientation, sex, gender expression or gender identity. UnityPoint Health providers and team members proudly support the American Medical Association nondiscrimination policy. See our full patient rights and responsibilities for more information.
How do I schedule an appointment?
You can call the clinic and leave a voicemail or you can request an appointment online . A representative will be in touch within one (1) business day.
What is Safe Zone training?
Our dedicated staff of providers and team members undergo Safe Zone training to ensure knowledge, understanding, support and trust is expressed for LGBTQ+ individuals who are seeking care. Our goal is to provide exceptional care experiences and quality outcomes to everyone that we're fortunate to serve.
What services are offered?
Primary care and routine exams
Vaccinations
Routine cancer screening
Contraceptive management
STI testing and treatment
Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP)
Hormone therapy (19 years and older)
Post-surgical care following gender-affirming procedures (19 years and older)
On-site lab and radiology
LGBTQ Health Care Services
LGBTQ Health Care Services
Other Locations
Set Your Location
Set Your Location
Providing your location allows us to show you nearby providers and locations
Location (City or Zip)
SET
Use my current location
Clear
Previous
Next