Go to Content
My Body.
My Care.
Our expert staff welcome everyone who needs care.
To book an appointment, call us at 410-576-1414 or schedule online.
Book Online
Our services include:
Gender affirming hormone therapy for individuals aged 16 and older. Parental/guardian consent required for Resources and referrals for primary care, mental health, surgery, dental care, legal services, electrolysis, support groups, and more
Sensitive sexual/reproductive health care and preventive screenings
Estrogen-Based Therapy
Testosterone-blocking medications: spironolactone, finasteride
Estradiol medications: injections, patches, pills
Progestin medications
Testosterone Therapy
Testosterone medications: injections, gels
Scalp hair loss management: finasteride
"Microdosing" or intermediate dose hormones
What PPM locations offer gender affirming hormone therapy?
We now offer gender affirming care in-person at all PPM health centers as well as via telehealth!
To find an appointment near you, enter your zip code or city into our online scheduler and select "Gender Affirming Care" as the service you're looking for.
How do I make an appointment?
To book an appointment, you can call us or book online .
For online booking, select "Gender Affirming Care" as the service you'd like to be seen for, enter your location, then select whether you would like to be seen in-person, via telehealth, or either.
For established patients, log in to MyChart to book follow-ups or to see details of past appointments.
Do I need a referral from a mental health professional to receive hormone therapy at PPM?
We follow the Informed Consent Model so you do not need a mental health referral to receive hormone therapy.
How much do hormone therapy services cost at PPM?
If you do not have Medicaid or private insurance, the cost of your first visit will be $200. Subsequent visits will be $160.
We accept Maryland Medicaid and most privates insurances. We also accept payment by cash, credit card and flexible spending account cards. Payment is due at the time of service.
Planned Parenthood staff will contact your insurance provider to confirm coverage for hormonal therapy services and what, if any, your out-of-pocket expense will be. We encourage all patients to contact their insurance provider prior to an appointment to ensure coverage and to get a full understanding of what options the insurance carrier allows for hormonal therapy. If a referral is required by your insurance carrier, it will be your responsibility to reach out to your Primary Care Provider for that. We will complete prior authorization forms for prescriptions if required by your insurance.
Initial Visit:
Your provider will discuss with you the informed consent process, your gender identity history and transition goals, and will review both the expected effects, benefits and possible risk factors for hormone therapy. A comprehensive history will be obtained and reviewed. The provider will perform routine lab work to make sure you are a healthy candidate for hormone therapy. Based on the results of this visit, most patients are prescribed hormones that day. Together, you and your provider will make the best decision for you.
Follow-up visits:
In order to continue receiving your hormones, you will need to schedule periodic appointments at Planned Parenthood for routine lab work and monitoring. Your provider will determine the best follow up schedule based upon your needs. Reaching your individualized transition goals will be a gradual process, and your provider will discuss in-depth what that may look like.
Other services:
In addition to offering hormone therapy, we also provide cancer screening, wellness education, STI testing and treatment, HIV testing, annual exams, pregnancy testing, birth control, emergency contraception, abortion care and more in an affirming environment.
Prescription Refills
How to request and who is eligible.
Learn More
Subcutaneous Injection
Detailed guidance on how to perform subcutaneous self-injections.
Watch Here
Intramuscular Injection
Detailed guidance on how to perform intramuscular self-injections.
Watch Here
Crisis Support:
SAGE x HearMe
Trans Lifeline
The Trevor Project
988 Lifeline
Health Care:
Gender Affirmative Letter Access Project (GALAP)
Maryland Department of Health: LGBTQ+ Health
Maryland Department of Health: Maryland Medicaid & GAC
Housing:
Auntie's Home
Baltimore Safe Haven
Legal & Document:
Advocates for Trans Equality: Trans Legal Survival Guide
Free State Justice Legal Services
Maryland Commission of Civil Rights & Maryland Office of the Attorney General: Guidance on LGBTQIA+ protections under Maryland law
National Center for Transgender Equality Documents ID Center
Trans Maryland: Document Assistance Clinics
Whitman Walker Health: Legal Services
Whitman Walker Health: Name and Gender Change Guide
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all