Home
Consumer Home
Insurance
File a Complaint
Insurance
Insurance
Life & Health
File a Complaint
Health Benefit Exchange
Property & Casualty
Resources
File A Complaint
If you have questions about insurance or are experiencing a problem with an insurance company, we are here to help.
Toll-free number: 1-877-310-6560
Life and Health Consumer Services: 804-371-9691
AskAQuestion@scc.virginia.gov
Property and Casualty Consumer Services: 804-371-9185
AskAQuestionPC@scc.virginia.gov ​
Click the topics below for how to file a complaint. We do not accept complaints by phone or email.
Note about AI: The Bureau wants consumers to know that Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools can often provide incorrect information about insurance. These tools may misinterpret policy documents, emails, letters, websites, and state insurance laws and regulations. Insurance rules vary by state, and AI-generated answers to both general and specific insurance questions are often inaccurate.
Please understand that our response to your situation may differ from information provided by AI tools. If you use AI for insurance information, we encourage you to verify the information with other reliable sources.
Getting Assistance from the Bureau
What we can do:
Assist with Virginia issued policies.
Contact the insurance company or agent for an explanation regarding your concerns.
Review the company's response to make sure they followed Virginia insurance laws and your policy provisions.
Share our findings and review the company's response.
Help you understand your options when we don't have the regulatory authority to resolve the complaint.
If you have a Lawyer, we can get involved with their written permission
Locate an insurance policy when you provide the name of the company for a deceased individual.
What we can't do:
Recommend an agent, company, or specific insurance product.
Review medical records to decide if a claim should be paid or not.
Act as your lawyer or get involved in a pending lawsuit.
Determine who was negligent or at fault.
Decide whose side of the story is true with differing accounts
Force a company to pay outside the terms of the policy provisions.
Determine the monetary value of certain claims, like total losses, bodily injuries, and diminished value.
You can obtain assistance with matters that are not subject to Virginia insurance laws by contacting the following state or federal agencies such as:
Commonwealth of Virginia employee benefit plan
Federal employee plans
Home Warranty/Home Service Contracts
Medicaid
Medicare
Military Insurance plans (e.g. Tricare, etc.)
Self-insured employer plans and health and welfare benefit plans
Unemployment Benefits
Workers' Compensation Claims
FILE YOUR COMPLAINT/APPEAL ONLINE
Use our Insurance Complaint Portal to submit your complaint.
Set up an account using a valid email address and create a password.
Submit your complaint, providing as much information as possible. Upload copies of all supporting documentation.
If you are unable to submit your documentation via the Portal, you may mail or fax it to us.
An email confirmation with your complaint number will be sent to you after the complaint has been submitted and assigned to an insurance examiner.
To add additional information, log back into the Portal and add a comment or upload the document. Click the Submit button to save information.
You will receive an email when there are updates to your complaint. To view these updates:
Log in to the Portal. Your complaint(s) will be listed by number on the Workspace page.
In the Action column next to your complaint, select one of the two links&mdash;Comments or Documents. You will be taken to a list of all updates- select the one you want to review.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: When using the Portal for submitting complaints subject to Section 38.2-3407.15 or 38.2-237 of the Code of Virginia, please complete the Provider Complaint Form and upload it with all required and supporting documentation. &ldquo;Insured Information&rdquo; is not necessary for complaints that involve more than one covered person.
FILE YOUR COMPLAINT/APPEAL BY MAIL OR FAX (COMPLAINT FORMS)
If you are unable to file a complaint on the online portal, please select the applicable form below to submit a complaint by mail or fax ( fax cover sheet ). Provide as much information as possible, attach copies of all supporting documentation to the completed complaint form, and keep the original documents for your records.
Complaint Forms for Consumers
Property and Casualty Insurance Complaint Form
Life and Health Insurance Complaint/Appeal Form
Formulario de Queja o Recurso de Apelación por Seguro de Vida y Seguro de Salud
Formulario de Queja - División de Accidentes y Daños Materiales
Balance Billing Complaint Form
Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC) or Community-Based Continuing Care (CBCC) Complaint Form
File a Pharmacy Benefit Management Complaint
Appeal/External Review Forms
Appeal Denial by a Managed Care Health Insurance Plan
Request an External Review
Complaint Form for Health Care Providers
Provider Complaint Form & Procedures
Appointments and Hand Delivery
Generally, most issues do not require an in-person meeting with the Bureau of Insurance. Should an in-person meeting be indicated, the Bureau can provide in-person service by appointment from 10 a.m. - 3 p.m., Monday through Thursday ( excluding scheduled closings ) at the SCC's headquarters at 1300 East Main Street in downtown Richmond.
Appointments outside of those hours, and consumers who appear without an appointment, will be accommodated as staffing permits.
All consumers visiting the SCC to meet with consumer services representatives must adhere to SCC Visitor Security Guidelines .
Documents related to a complaint may be dropped off with the Security Staff on the first floor at the SCC's headquarters at 1300 East Main Street in downtown Richmond anytime between 8:15 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.