Go to Content
Planned Parenthood of Michigan is proud to provide gender-affirming hormone therapy (GAHT) to transgender, nonbinary, gender expansive, and intersex people.
We offer gender-affirming hormone therapy at our health centers across Michigan and via telehealth appointments.
GAHT Supply Kits
PPMI patients receiving injectable hormone therapy can purchase injection supplies at the front desk with a prescription from the clinician. Kits are $10 and include a 6-month supply:
25 injection needles
25 draw needles
25 syringes
Now available at all health centers. Ask us for more details at your next health center appointment.
We use an informed consent model of care. This means that clinicians discuss the risks and benefits of hormone therapy with patients, and clinicians work with patients to determine the plan that is best tailored to their needs in the context of their medical conditions. Patients do not need a mental health referral to receive hormone care at PPMI.
READ MORE
Your first visit and beyond
What to expect on gender-affirming hormone therapy
Read More
What to expect on hormones videos
Videos describing expected changes and medical considerations on hormones
Watch
Choosing your therapy
Choosing the route of hormone therapy that is right for you
Read More
Injection videos
Learn how to perform self injections
Watch
Syringe Education
Syringes and Gender-Affirming Hormone Medications: Ensuring You Get the Right Dose
Read More
Blood work
Where, when, and why/how we monitor
Read More
Hormone prescriptions at the pharmacy
Instructions regarding your prescriptions
Read More
Myth busting
Real information about gender-affirming care
Read More
FAQ
Questions and answers about gender-affirming care and hormone therapy at PPMI
Read More
Centering community
We are committed to serving and collaborating with those we serve.
Read More
Payments
Learn about fees, payments, and insurance
Read More
Effects of estrogen-based therapy
What are the changes, and are they permanent or reversible?
Get PDF
Effects of testosterone-based therapy
What are the changes, and are they permanent or reversible?
Get PDF
Planning for your GAHT visit
Get instructions to prepare for your visit.
Full Instructions
Planning for your telehealth visit
Get instructions to prepare for your virtual telehealth visit.
Full Instructions
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all