0
Click Here for Intake
Trans Marylanders, we've launched our name and gender change program for trans (nonbinary, binary, agender, genderqueer +) adults 18+!
By trans folks, for trans folks.
We know having an accurate ID is essential to accessing: housing, employment, and feeling confident. We also know that according to the US Trans Survey's Maryland report, 69% of trans Marylanders don't have an accurate ID. Let's get the process started together!
All costs covered for those who cannot afford them (costs above $1000 per person may require external referral).
We can also assist you if you are seeking to change your gender marker on one or more documents.
What happens after you submit the intake?
Someone will review your intake. and contact you if further info is needed to complete your paperwork.
Your court forms will be pre-filled for you based on your responses to the intake questions. They will be emailed to you, and you will be sent a link to schedule a phone intake.
During the phone intake we will review your personal situation and make a plan for name change. Our program is designed to get you through the process as quickly as possible. Each county in Maryland moves at a different speed of processing, so note that the times for a trans friend in different county/city than you could vary.
We will stay in touch and work with you throughout the court, social security administration, MVA, and birth certificate/passport update process as applicable to you & your preferences/situation. Staying in touch helps us know the current timelines, and anonymously assist other trans people.
The point of this program is to help you, and to crowdsource the most updated timelines to ensure all trans Marylanders who want to change our names and or gender markers can do so as quickly, and smoothly as possible.
Frequently Asked Questions & Answers (Maryland Residents ONLY):
How long will it take?
Timelines between the counties/city vary WIDELY. We’ll tell you updated timelines for each of The Big Three (see below) during your intake phone call.
What’s the order?
We call them The Big Three: Maryland Court, Social Security Administration (SSA), Motor Vehicle Administration (MVA). You must go in that order for name change to update your name and or gender marker with entities like, your bank, your health insurance, etc.
Do I need to update my birth certificate before I update my name/gender marker with social security administration (SSA), the MVA, or on my passport?
No. Your documents do not need to “match” at the MVA, SSA, or for your passport application. Your court order will “tie” everything together. Wait times for changes with Vital Records are very behind across the country, so because of that we do not recommend waiting to change your birth certificate before updating with SSA and MVA.
Can I change my gender marker at the MVA?
Yes, you can do this anytime and choose X, F, or M. See here: https://transmaryland.org/just-check-the-box
Can I change my gender marker multiple times at the MVA?
Yes! But you will need to pay the associated fee each time.
I am confused.
We’re here to help! Fill out the intake, and we’ll get back to you as soon as we can.
I am scared.
We understand. We’re trans, we’ve changed our names in Maryland, we get it. We were scared too. We’re here to help.