Skip to Main Content
Identity Documents
Information about locating, updating, and correcting errors on your IDs.
Search this Guide
Search
View all pages in this guide
General Information
Finding Copies
Correcting Errors
Name Changes
Voter ID
Identity Theft
Find More Information
Note The library cannot tell you what the law means for your situation.
Birth Certificates
Birth certificates may need to be corrected or updated for a variety of reasons:
name misspellings
name changes
inaccuracies in the child's sex
errors or omissions by the hospital
adding or removing parents
adoptions
Texas Law
Section 191.028 of the Texas Health and Safety Code This link opens in a new window
Allows a birth certificate to be changed if it is "proved by satisfactory evidence to be inaccurate."
Section 192.011 of the Texas Health and Safety Code This link opens in a new window
If a birth certificate was amended with respect to sex, color, or race, you can request a new birth certificate that incorporates the changes.
Understanding the Law
Birth Record FAQs (Texas Vital Statistics) This link opens in a new window
Information about ordering, correcting, and amending birth certificates.
New Birth Certificate Based on Adoption (Texas Vital Statistics) This link opens in a new window
Department of Vital Statistics explains how to obtain a new Texas birth certificate after adoption.
Forms
Application to Correct Birth Certificate This link opens in a new window
The Texas Department of State Health Services provides this form and instructions to correct a birth certificate.
Changing Sex Markers
In 2025, Texas enacted House Bill 229 . This bill defines certain words &mdash; e.g. , female, woman, male, man &mdash; when they are used in other laws. It also defines "sex" as "an individual's biological sex, either male or female." These definitions apply in cases where other laws didn't already have a formal definition.
In addition, Senate Bill 1188 requires that electronic health records list a person's "biological sex" at birth. The bill says those health records may only be amended due to clerical error or a diagnosed sexual development disorder.
Prior to those changes, Attorney General Ken Paxton issued opinion KP-0489 regarding the validity of district court orders that direct state agencies to amend a person's "sex" designation on state identification documents.
The Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) in 2024 stopped accepting court orders that change the sex of an individual or "combined" orders that issue a name change and a gender marker change in the same document. DPS is responsible for issuing driver licenses and state IDs.
Texas Law
Section 311.005 of the Texas Government Code This link opens in a new window
Defines the words female and male as well as woman, man, boy, girl, father, mother, and sex.
Sections 183.007 and 183.008 of the Texas Health and Safety Code This link opens in a new window
Requires electronic health records to document a person’s sex at birth as either male or female; allows changes only to correct clerical errors or for certain diagnoses.
Section 191.028 of the Texas Health and Safety Code This link opens in a new window
Allows a birth certificate to be changed if it is "proved by satisfactory evidence to be inaccurate."
Section 192.011 of the Texas Health and Safety Code This link opens in a new window
If a birth certificate was amended with respect to sex, color, or race, you can request a new birth certificate that incorporates the changes.
Governor Abbott's Letter to Chairmen and Executive Directors This link opens in a new window
The governor sent a letter to state agency heads in January of 2025 regarding President Trump's executive order.
Attorney General Opinion No. KP-0489 This link opens in a new window
Attorney General Ken Paxton issued a legal opinion in March of 2025 about the validity of district court orders that direct state agencies to amend a person’s biological "sex" designation on state identification documents.
Federal Law
Executive Order 14168 This link opens in a new window
President Trump's January 2025 executive order directs federal agencies to use the term "sex" and not "gender" in federal policies & documents.
Understanding the Law
Requirements for Changing Vital Records (Texas Vital Statistics) This link opens in a new window
New policy blocks transgender Texans from changing sex on driver's licenses (KUT News, 8/21/2024) This link opens in a new window
Texas Vital Statistics no longer accepts court orders to update birth certificate sex markers (KXAN, 8/31/2024) This link opens in a new window
Texas just defined man and woman. Here’s why that matters. (Texas Tribune, 5/29/2025) This link opens in a new window
Death Certificates
Death certificates may need to be corrected or updated for a variety of reasons:
incorrect biographical information, including:
misspelled name
date of birth or age
sex
birthplace
Social Security number
parent's name
incorrect funeral details
incorrect medical information
Note that only certain people can request changes to a death certificate. Depending on the type of change, the following people are authorized to request an amendment to a death certificate, as long as they are named on the certificate:
funeral director
person who provided information to funeral director
surviving spouse
surviving parent
Texas Law
Section 191.028 of the Texas Health and Safety Code This link opens in a new window
Allows a death certificate to be changed if it is "proved by satisfactory evidence to be inaccurate."
Understanding the Law
Death Record FAQs This link opens in a new window
Information about ordering and amending death certificates.
Forms
Correcting a Death Certificate This link opens in a new window
The Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) provides this form and instructions to correct a death certificate.
Driver Licenses
Driver licenses may need to be corrected or updated for a variety of reasons:
new name or address
name misspellings
error in personal data (height, sex, date of birth, address)
inaccurate drug or DWI conviction information
incorrect photo
incorrect organ donor information
Understanding the Law
How to Change Information on Your Driver License or ID Card This link opens in a new window
The Texas DPS explains what is required to update your address or name on your Texas driver license or ID card.
Reporting an Error on a Driver License or ID This link opens in a new window
The Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) provides instructions on how to correct common errors on driver licenses and identification cards.
Marriage Licenses
If there is an error on a marriage license, the Texas Administrative Code states that "both parties are responsible for executing a notarized affidavit stating the error."
The county clerk will file the notarized affidavit "as an amendment to the marriage license." Any time a certified copy of the amended marriage license is requested, the clerk will include the affidavit with the copy.
For more information about marriage licenses, please see the Marriage Licenses page of our Marriage in Texas guide.
Texas Law
25 Texas Administrative Code Rule 181.25 This link opens in a new window
Texas Department of State Health Services rule with instruction for correcting an error in a marriage license.
Social Security Cards
According to the Social Security Administration , a Social Security card can be updated or corrected to change:
date of birth
name
citizenship status
Understanding the Law
How do I change or correct my name on my Social Security number card? This link opens in a new window
Forms
Application for a Social Security Card This link opens in a new window
If you are unable to use the online application, you can apply for a corrected Social Security card using this form.
United States Passports
According to the U.S. Department of State , passports can be updated or corrected for:
name changes
data errors (for example, errors in your name, sex, or place of birth)
printing errors
The U.S. Department of State says it is unnecessary to update your passport with a new address.
Understanding the Law
Name Change or Correct a U.S. Passport This link opens in a new window
Information from the U.S. State Department on changing your name or correcting an error on your passport.
Forms
U.S. Passport Applications and Forms This link opens in a new window
The U.S. Department of State provides an online form-filler tool for common passport-related forms.
Note The library cannot tell you what the law means for your situation.
<< Previous: Finding Copies
Next: Name Changes >>
URL: https://guides.sll.texas.gov/identity-documents
Print Page
Librarian Login
Report a problem
Subjects: Children & Minors
Civil Rights
Family Law
Tags: birth certificate
death certificate
driver license
driver's license
form of identification
gender marker change
green card
identifying documents
name change
passport
social security card
voter id