Skip to main content
Featured Slideshow
Children and Families
Our primary focus is on preserving stability for children and protecting victims of abuse and neglect. Family law may include divorce, custody and child support, guardianship, and related issues.
Learn more
Debt and Finances
We help with financial issues such as bankruptcy, credit report disputes, wage garnishment, tax debt, and others.
Learn more
Housing
We work to ensure everyone has access to safe and healthy housing, whether they own or rent their homes.
Learn more
Income and Benefits
We help people secure and maintain necessary benefits like Social Security, Veterans benefits, Medicaid, SNAP, and Unemployment.
Learn more
Go to Previous Slide Go to Next Slide
Who We Are and What We Do
Legal Aid of Nebraska exists to promote justice, dignity, hope, and self-sufficiency through quality civil legal aid for those who have nowhere else to turn. We want to bring change to the lives of those we serve in our community. With your help we can make a difference. We provide information, referrals, advice, self-help services, and representation to qualifying low-income individuals with civil legal issues. The type of assistance we provide depends upon your situation, the legal issue, and Legal Aid’s resources. We have seven offices across the state, serving all 93 counties.
Featured
Client Impact Stories
Nancy&#039;s Story
"My attorney, Paul, spent a lot of time with me to explain what was actually going on."
Angie&#039;s Story
“When you’re falling through the cracks, and you feel like nobody else will help you, and you don’t know where to go — Legal Aid is there."
Gloria&#039;s story
“Winning this unemployment insurance case felt like long-deserved justice for me.”
Monica&#039;s Story
“When you leave, you don’t think you have anyone to help and then you realize there is a whole network of people supporting you. I think it is important for people to realize that."
Big numbers, personal impact:
Requests for assistance in 2025
19,200
Cases closed in 2025
12,878
Economic impact
$16,348,129
Testimonials
Nancy
“My attorney spent a lot of time with me to explain what was actually going on.”
Read Nancy's story
Angie
“When you don’t know where to go — Legal Aid is there,"
Read Angie's story
Breanne
“Her support truly was exactly what I needed,"
Read Breanne's story
Monica
“When you leave, you don’t think you have anyone to help and then you realize there is a whole network of people supporting you. I think it is important for people to realize that,"
Read Monica's story
Go to Previous Slide Go to Next Slide
Apply for Help Online
Call for Help
Donate
MENU CLOSE