Skip to main content
Driver License
Find information about how to apply for or renew a noncommercial driver license. You can also find our noncommercial driver license manual, take the online knowledge test, schedule a driver test and gain quick access to other driver license and identification resources.
New Drivers
Get a Driver License Manual
For a manual to help you study for your driver license test, click here.
Take the Knowledge Test
If you're a new driver and you want to take your knowledge test from home, click here.
Schedule a Road Test
If you're ready to take your road test and get your license, click here.
Schedule an Appointment
For all other driver license and ID related business, skip the line and click here.
License Requirements
The minimum driving age in North Dakota is 16, but a resident can obtain a restricted license at the age of 15. There are fees associated with obtaining a license, along with additional requirements that you can learn about here .
See also motorcycle licenses and commercial driver licenses (CDL) .
Driver Education and Driving Tests
Driving tests can be scheduled online . You can also make appointments to schedule other driver license business such as renewal, replacement of a license or card, updating information on your license or card, and transferring an existing driver license from another state. Driver license testing requires a visit to a North Dakota driver license site and appointments are required.
Additional Resources for New Drivers
Here are a few additional resources aimed at helping people become licensed drivers and ensuring they maintain safe driving abilities.
Obtaining a Learner's Permit
Driver Training Schools
Vision Zero
Parent's Supervised Driving Program
Other Driver License and Identification Resources
Identification (ID) Card Requirements
You may obtain an ID card at any age, and obtaining an ID card does not require you to meet the requirements of a driver license. Learn more here.
REAL ID
REAL ID implements security processes designed to reduce identity fraud. Learn more about obtaining a REAL ID or a REAL ID driver license.
Driver Education
Information about education and training resources for North Dakota drivers, education for teens, parents and driving school resources.
Replace a Lost, Stolen, or Damaged License
Learn about the online and in-person options for replacing a lost, stolen, or damaged ID or license.
Transfer an Out of State License
If you have a license from another state, you may need to transfer it to a ND license. Learn how.
Online Services for Drivers
Find information about NDDOT's online services for drivers.
Organ Donor Registry
If you are at least 14 years old, you can add your name to the donor registry when you obtain your driver license, permit or ID card.
Driver License Status Check
Use our handy online tool to check the status of your driver license.
Driver License Renewal
You may be eligible to renew your license online, or may need to visit a ND Driver License site to complete this process. Learn more here.
Driver License FAQs
Driver License Renewal
How much time do I have to renew my North Dakota driver license before I have to take the written and road tests again?
Your ND driver license can be renewed without retesting up to one year past the expiration date. However, the driver license expires at midnight on your birthday or at midnight on the expiration date printed on your license. You are not authorized to be driving during the time it is expired.
How early can I come in to renew my ND driver license?
You can renew your North Dakota driver license up to 10 months prior to its expiration date. You will not lose any time that was remaining on the old license.
How do I renew my license if I am currently out of state?
You should call to request a renewal if you are out of state. We will need to collect the following information so we can send the applicant the renewal packet.
1. North Dakota driver license number or social security number
2. Name/date of birth
3. Reason for the request
4. Out-of-state mailing address
All forms must be completed and returned; instructions will be included in the packet. You may mail the renewal packet to Driver License Division, 608 East Boulevard Avenue, Bismarck, ND 58505-0700, fax it to (701) 328-0308, or email dl@nd.gov . If you fax the request, you will have to call with credit card information after it has been faxed to pay the $15 fee. If your license is not suspended, revoked or cancelled in this or any other state, we will process and mail you your license.
I am active-duty military, stationed out of state, and need to renew my license. How do I do that?
Active-duty military members and their spouse may be eligible to renew their license by mail. See above question relating to renewal while out of state. Visit the active military webpage for more information.
I have not received a renewal notice. Are notices still mailed?
Yes, notices get mailed automatically. If you have changed addresses and did not notify the department , you might not receive the notice as they are third class mail and not forwarded. We are not required by law to send any notices; it is a courtesy reminder. You are not required to bring it with you to renew.
I was out of state LAST TIME I renewed. Can I renew again by mail?
No, you may not renew by mail a second time unless you are Active Duty Military or a spouse of an Active Duty Military member.
Copy Link
Insurance
Can my car insurance company see my driving record?
Yes, if your insurance company does a record check, they will see violations within the last three years for violations with a point total of three or more.
What do I need to do if I had a reportable motor vehicle crash and didn’t have proof of motor vehicle insurance?
When a driver has a motor vehicle crash involving an injury, death, or property damage of at least $4,000 or more, and the department is notified that the driver did not have proof of insurance at the time of the crash, the driver must comply with the following:
1. Provide evidence of liability insurance at the time of the crash, or
2. Provide a notarized release of liability from each person who suffered property damage or injury in the crash, or
3. File a security deposit in the amount of damages that will be held as security for one year and used to satisfy any judgment arising out of the crash, or
4. File proof of financial responsibility. This may be shown by filing an SR-22 insurance form or a deposit of $25,000 cash or negotiable securities. This proof must be kept on file for one year from the date of the crash.
Failure to comply with one of the options above will result in the suspension of driving privileges.
What is an SR-22 insurance certificate?
An SR-22 insurance certificate is required for proof of financial responsibility for persons whose driving privileges have been suspended or revoked for certain convictions or traffic offenses. It must be obtained from your insurance company. An SR-22 shows the department proof of insurance for the future, as required by law. It is motor vehicle liability insurance which requires the insurance company to certify coverage to the department. The insurance company must notify the department if the policy is canceled, terminated, or lapses. If the department receives notice of a canceled SR-22, the driving privileges will be suspended. An insurance card, policy, or declaration page cannot be accepted in place of the SR-22.
Copy Link
Motorcycle Permits and Licensing
Do I need a license to operate a small motorcycle, moped, or motorized scooter?
If the small motorcycle, moped or motorized scooter is 49.98 cc and below, you are required to have a valid permit or license to operate it. If the motorcycle is 49.99 cc’s and above (able to go 30mph or more) you are required to have a valid motorcycle permit or motorcycle license to operate it.
Click here for Motorcycle License Information
Copy Link
Identification Cards and REAL ID
If I already have a REAL ID do I need to bring any documentation upon my next visit to a driver license site?
You will not need to present your Real ID documents upon your next visit. The exception to this is you will need to present documentation if you've had a name change, change of address, or gender change.
Can I make an appointment for a REAL ID?
The United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has announced that it is has extended the REAL ID enforcement to May 3, 2023, you are able to get a REAL ID. A REAL ID can be obtained at the same time of a renewal application or as a duplicate application. An appointment is required and can be made online or by calling 1-855-633-6835. You will be required to bring all required documents to your appointment.
What documents do I need to obtain a state-issued identification card?
In order to get a state issued ID card you will need to present a certified birth certificate or a valid passport. In addition, you will also need to know your social security number and if there has been a name change, you are required to provide certified documents proving the legal name change (i.e. marriage certificate, divorce decree, court ordered name change). Lastly, you are required to present documentation of your ND resident address.
Copy Link
Suspensions, Revocations, Restrictions and Violations
What is an order of suspension?
This is the director’s official notification that action is being taken against your driving privileges. It explains how long your driving privileges will be suspended for and why (a DUI conviction, having too many points, no insurance, etc.). It will also tell you what reinstatement requirements must be met before your driving privileges can be reinstated.
What is the difference between suspension and revocation?
If your privileges are suspended, you will get driving privileges back after the period of suspension time has been completed and all reinstatement requirements have been met. If your driving privileges are revoked, you must complete the revocation period, meet all the reinstatement requirements, and take the written and road tests again before having valid driving privileges restored.
What is the minor's cancellation?
If you are under the age of 18 and accumulate six or more points on your driving record or commit an alcohol-related or drug-related offense while operating a motor vehicle, your permit or license will be cancelled. You will then be required to start all over again as if you have never had a permit or license before. This includes the written test, vision test, parent’s permission, obtain an Instruction permit, hold the permit at least 12 months if you are under the age of 16 or at least 6 months if you are under the age of 18, and complete drivers education prior to being allowed to road test for the license.
Can you get a work permit for a youth under the age of 18 who has lost their license due to too many points?
No. Youths under the age of 18 are not eligible to get a work permit.
What is a temporary restricted license?
A TRL is a restricted license issued to persons whose driving privileges have been suspended or revoked for certain offenses. A TRL authorizes the operation of a non-commercial motor vehicle for work purposes, educational purposes, or the need to perform essential life maintenance needs. By law, the driver must serve a portion of the suspension with no type of restricted driving privileges. This timeframe varies depending on the reason for the suspension. A TRL will not be granted for anyone under the age of 18 or for operating commercial motor vehicles. To apply for a TRL use the following form: TRL Application (SFN 2254)
What is the difference between a limited driving record and a complete driving record?
A limited driving record will include your current point total but will not include violations or convictions that are more than three years old or crash information. A limited record can be obtained online . A complete record will include your current point total, violations and convictions that are more than three years old and crash information. The complete record can only be obtained by submitting SFN 51386 - Request for Driver Abstract and a $3 fee to the Driver License Division.
Copy Link
Commercial Driver Licenses (CDL)
How do I get a CDL?
You must take the written and road tests. All applicants must take the general knowledge test. Depending on what Class of CDL required, you may need additional tests such as the combination test for Class A, passenger and/or school bus, airbrake, or other endorsement tests as apply. Once you have passed the written test(s), a permit is issued. The permit allows for practice driving a CDL with someone who is 18 years or older and has 3 or more years driving experience for the same or higher class of driver license as the permit. Once you have held the permit at least 14 days and are ready, you may call to schedule an appointment for the road test. After successful completion of the road test a CDL will be issued.
What are common commercial road test definitions and answers?
Air Brakes – you must road test in an air brake vehicle or be restricted to non-airbrake vehicles only.
For Class A and B road tests, you will be restricted to automatic transmission only if you do not bring in a manual unless you already have a Class A or B CDL without the restriction.
For Class A road tests, if you do not test in a tractor trailer with a 5th wheel plate, you will be restricted as ‘No Tractor Trailer CMV’.
For Passenger/School Bus road tests, is the bus is under 26,001 pounds, the license will be deemed a Class C.
Placarded vehicles – Cannot use placarded vehicle for the test.
No loaded vehicles.
No double/triple trailers.
I need to get a hazardous materials (HAZMAT) endorsement on my CDL. How do I do that?
You must first pass a federal fingerprint-based security threat assessment. To initiate the threat assessment, you must fill out a national hazardous material application. To access the application and obtain information on fees and TSA fingerprint collection locations, call the federal help desk at 1-855-837-8371.
When your threat assessment has been approved, TSA will mail you a letter and will also notify the Driver License Division. You will then be allowed to take the HAZMAT knowledge test and add the H endorsement to your current ND CDL.
Click here for CDL Information
Copy Link
Address or Name Change
Changing the name on your driver license
In order to change your name on your North Dakota Driver License, you will be required to bring certified documentation of the change in person such as your: Marriage certificate, Divorce decree, or Court order to any ND Drivers License site .
A government issued marriage certificate, a certified court order (must have a seal), or a certified divorce decree which specifically states the current legal name (must have a seal), are all acceptable documents. If you are not in need of a renewal of your driver license, you will be required to submit a $3.00 fee and have a new picture taken.
Changing your address online
To use the online system , you will need your name as listed on your license, your driver license number, your date of birth and last four of your SSN. Visit an ND Driver License Site and purchase a duplicate license.
Proof of address is required
Yes, you do need to provide proof of resident address if your address has changed and a card is printed. Here is a list of acceptable documents for proof of address.
• Most current government issued property tax statement
• Current mortgage, lease, rental document
• Current homeowners/renters insurance policy
• Current utility bill (electricity, gas, water, sewer, cable, recycle)
• School/College Transcript issued within 6 months
• Current financial statement (issued by financial institution, government entity, government regulated entity)
• Current pay stub or statement from employer
• Current vehicle insurance policy/statement
• Current resident certificate issued by a North Dakota Tribal Agency
• Current formal resident statement issued by property owner/renter
• Current relief Agency or Shelter Certification
NOTE: Parent can provide proof of residency documents for minor child (under 18)
Getting help if the online system in not working
You may call our Central Office at 701-328-4353 to assist you in updating your address on record only.
Who do I contact to obtain a certified marriage/divorce certificate if I was married or divorced in ND?
Visit the appropriate North Dakota county office to obtain a Marriage Record. All certified copies of marriage records must be issued by the county where the license was originally purchased and filed. Please contact the appropriate county from the list to obtain a certified copy.
For divorce or annulment decrees you must also visit the appropriate ND county office. Certified copies of divorce records can only be obtained from the county clerk or recorder in the county in which the divorce or annulment was decreed. If you need assistance determining in which county the divorce decree was granted, contact the office at (701) 328-2360 or email the information you are looking for to vitalrec@state.nd.us .
Do I need to purchase a corrected license?
For name changes:
A ND Driver License Site must be visited by anyone who has a change of name to purchase a corrected license within 10 days.
For address changes:
If you have a commercial license you are required by law to purchase a new license with your corrected address within 10 days.
If you are a non-commercial driver you are required to update the address on record only within 10 days.
A ND Driver License Site visit, however, is recommended to purchase a duplicate license with the new address for other reasons (i.e. voting, check cashing, public library, travel, etc.).
Copy Link