Florida Name Change
Home
Step 1 - Petition
Step 2 - Social Security
Step 3 - Driver License
Step 4 - Passport
Step 5 - Birth Certificate
Step 3 - update Driver License
Important Note: Previously, the Florida Division of Motorist Services required proof that sexual reassignment surgery had been completed. This is no longer the policy and proof of such may not be requested or required.
The instructions below will guide you step-by-step through the process. If at anytime you are unsure of what to do, the tan colored box will give you more information and tips. If you would like to contact an attorney or the courthouse, find resources for your area by selecting the county .
read before proceeding
The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles recently changed its policy to prohibit gender marker amendments on Florida licenses, permits, and IDs. This only impacts amendments to these documents, meaning it only applies to individuals who already possess a Florida license, permit, or ID that reflects their sex assigned at birth, who are seeking to amend the document to reflect their gender identity. For Floridians obtaining a first-time permit, license, or ID, they can obtain the document reflecting their gender identity as long as they have a "primary identification document" reflecting their correct gender identity (i.e. a U.S. Passport or a Birth Certificate). For Floridians who already amended their license, permit, or ID prior to the policy change on January 26, 2024, they are able to renew their document reflecting their gender identity, and the FLHSMV should not change their gender marker back to their sex assigned at birth. Contact Simone Chriss at Southern Legal Counsel if you are discriminated against by the FLHSMV.
Because The Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles recently changed its policy to prohibit gender marker amendments, the processes below are for information only.
1 - get Medical certification of appropriate clinical treatment
The Medical Certification of Appropriate Clinical Treatment must be on a doctor's office letterhead and include: Doctor's full name
Doctor's license or certificate number (M.D. or D.O.)
Issuing state or other jurisdiction of medical license or certificate
DEA registration number assigned to physician
A statement that the patient has had appropriate clinical treatment for gender transition to the new gender (specify male or female)
A statement that he/she has either treated the individual in relation to the individual's change in gender or has reviewed and evaluated the medical history of the individual in relation to the individual's change in gender
A statement that the doctor has a doctor/patient relationship with the individual; and
Language stating "I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States that the forgoing is true and correct."&#8203;
Below is a sample physician's letter. Remember that it needs to be on your physician's letterhead.
dl_-_sample_physicians_letter.pdf
File Size: 270 kb
File Type: pdf
Download File
What is "appropriate clinical treatment"?
Under the current policy, no specific treatment is required and the details of the treatment need not be included in the letter from the physician.
All that is necessary is for the physician to state the individual had clinical treatment determined by their health care provider to be appropriate.
2 - take documents to your local dmv office
Make sure to bring with you:
Proof of Social Security Number ( from Step 2 - Social Security )
Medical Certification of Appropriate Clinical Treatment
Proof of identification
Proof of address
Payment for $25 replacement fee
Driver License Service Centers
To find the closest to you, click here and select your county .
keep going!
The next step is to update the name on your passport
Update Passport
County Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us&#8203;
Donate
Disclaimer: This website does not constitute legal advice and is provided as-is without any warranty or guarantee. Although an attorney is not required to successfully update your name or gender marker, you may want to seek legal guidance from a licensed attorney.
Home
Step 1 - Petition
Step 2 - Social Security
Step 3 - Driver License
Step 4 - Passport
Step 5 - Birth Certificate