Denver Element
Visit our Facebook page for information on social events.
Donate to Denver Element
Mission
As a program of Mile High Behavioral Healthcare, with more than 15 years of dedicated service as a nonprofit, we work to create a safe and welcoming environment where every member of the LGBTQ+ community can thrive. Our mission is to empower and support LGBTQ individuals by offering comprehensive services.
What We Do
Substance Misuse Counseling
Our knowledgeable and compassionate counselors help individuals create treatment plans that are co-developed to address a myriad of issues including but not limited to: meth use, alcohol use, other drug use, trauma, self-esteem, effective coping skills, gender and sexual orientation development, and healthy living in a supportive environment free from judgment and shame, informed by the queer-lived experience. Learn more.
Harm Reduction
Our harm reduction services aim to minimize the negative health, social, and legal impacts associated with drug use. These services include interventions to combat stigma, promote referrals to care, educate individuals about overdose risks, provide lifesaving overdose reversal medications, and supply syringe services programs to prevent HIV and Hepatitis. Learn more.
HIV/STI Testing
We offer free, no-cost HIV/STI testing for individuals. Our tests screen for HIV, Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, Hepatitis-C, and Syphilis. Learn more.
PrEP Navigation
Our PrEP navigation team supports people in finding HIV prevention options that meet their sexual and reproductive health needs, without shame or stigma. Through prevention education, health benefits navigation, and referrals to resources, our navigation program helps people understand PrEP, resolve barriers to PrEP care, get financial assistance, and connect people to other support services. Learn more.
Support Groups
We currently have support groups for people living with HIV. Our groups allow individuals with similar problems provide emotional and moral support for one another, share personal experiences and feelings, and offer coping strategies and advice. Learn more.
Come join us..
Join us for some fun events this month. Subscribe or follow to get the latest updates on what we are doing, any events and how to get involved.
Newsletter Block
This newsletter signup form needs a storage option. Edit the block and enter a storage location via the Storage tab.
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!
In addition to state and federal funding, we are grateful for the generous sponsors of our community events.
Denver Element
The Denver ELEMENT coordinates the LGBTQ+ services and programs for Mile High Behavioral Healthcare, including Denver Pique, Reflections Positive Impact, Mile High Recovery Project and PrEP services.
Denver ELEMENT | Program of Mile High Behavioral Healthcare | 4242 Delaware Street | Denver, Colorado 80216 | (720) 382-5900
Executive offices: ( 720) 975-0155 | Mailing address: P.O. Box 919, Aurora, Colorado 80040
Privacy Policy