0
Upcoming Clinics 2026-2027
UPCOMING CLINICS: 2026-2027
Milwaukee In-Person Clinic
LGBT Community Center 161 South 1st Street * 9/18/26 * 5-7 PM (more details below)
Madison In-Person Clinic
TBD NOVEMBER 2026
Online Clinics:
All online clinics from 7:00-8:30 PM (Central Time). They are held via Zoom. We will put registration links on our website and social media approximately one month before the clinic date.
FALL: 10/28/26
WINTER: 1/27/27
SPRING: 4/28/27
SUMMER: 7/21/27
In-person Name + Sex Marker Change Clinic at the Milwaukee LGBT Community Center
5 pm to 7 pm
Friday, September 18th
Attorney and student volunteers will present legal info about WI’s name and sex marker change processes, answer questions, and help you complete the forms needed to file in court!
NO RSVP Needed!
Just Show Up
161 South 1st Street, Milwaukee, WI 53204
General Clinic Information:
At Trans Law Help Wisconsin, Inc., we want to help you access the legal information you need to navigate the process of name and sex marker changes confidently. Join us quarterly for an informative Zoom clinic where we'll provide valuable insights into the legal requirements and steps involved.
What We Offer:
Legal Insights : Our expert team will lead sessions focused on providing comprehensive information about the legal aspects of changing your name and sex marker. Learn about the requirements, procedures, and potential challenges you may encounter.
Flexible Participation : For Zoom clinics, feel free to choose how you want to participate in the clinic. You can identify yourself and use your Zoom camera during discussions, or you can choose to remain anonymous and either participate through audio-only communication or simply listen. No matter your privacy preferences, this clinic works for you! To further protect your privacy, we have a strict policy against recording any part of the clinic sessions.
Q&A Opportunities : Have burning questions about the legal process? Our Q&A sessions allow you to seek clarification and guidance from our knowledgeable team, ensuring you leave the clinic with a clearer understanding of your options. (Please note that we provide legal information and NOT legal advice as to your specific situation; for that, we suggest hiring an attorney).
Resource Repository : Access a curated list of resources, including legal guides, referral services, and community organizations, to further support you in your journey towards legal recognition.
Newsletter Block
This newsletter signup form needs a storage option. Edit the block and enter a storage location via the Storage tab.
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!