We Can Guide You to Information and Help
Concerned about providing your personal information?
Click here to read our privacy policy
STEP 1
Tell us about your legal problem.
STEP 2
Answer a few questions to help us personalize your results.
STEP 3
Get information and referrals related to your problems.
START
Frequently Asked Questions
How does Legal Help Link work?
Answer a few questions about your situation and your legal problem to let us guide you to the best help for your situation.
Learn More
Is Legal Help Link confidential?
Yes, your information is kept confidential. We do not share your personal information with third parties without your consent. Please review our privacy policy for more details.
Find Free Legal Help on Delaware Legal Help Link
Delaware Legal Help Link is provided as a free public service by Delaware's nonprofit civil legal aid providers and other justice community partners. It is designed to help people with civil legal problems in Delaware find the best help for your situation.
Get Started
Legal Self Help Resources
Visit the Legal Services Corporation of Delaware website to find:
Legal forms for situations involving family law
Court and legal Issues for family law, criminal justice issues, consumer complaints and more
Frequently asked questions about the legal process and legal services
Tips on how to avoid or solve common legal issues
Bulletin Board
!
Our Eviction Help page can help you find information about your rights, next steps, and where to get help.
Combined Campaign for Justice
The Delaware Combined Campaign for Justice (CCJ) supports critical civil legal assistance for low-income and disadvantaged Delawareans. Watch CCJ's 2 minute video to learn more.
!
Delaware Legal Help Link is provided as a public service by Delaware's nonprofit civil legal aid providers and other justice community partners. It is designed to help people with civil legal problems in Delaware find the best help for your situation.
This site does not provide referrals for criminal or personal injury matters, or for traffic tickets.
Visit the Delaware Office of Defender Services website for information on criminal matters or consult a private attorney for other assistance. If you need assistance finding a private attorney, please contact the DSBA Lawyer Referral Service.
Delaware Legal Help Link is provided as a public service by:
Back to top