Services
At Avenue 360, we offer both primary and specialty care services.
Medical
Care
Family Practice
Specializes in preventative care for any age group
At Avenue 360 Health & Wellness, we know that every family is different, and regardless of where you are on your healthcare journey, our team will work with you to ensure that your family receives the best care possible and that you remain informed and in charge of your health throughout the entire process. It is our primary goal to provide comprehensive preventative care to everyone in your family. We are board-certified and thoroughly trained to see you through the various stages of your life.
Internal Medicine
Medical care focusing on disease prevention in adults
Our internal medicine department focuses on the prevention and treatment of diseases in adults. Among other conditions, we specialize in the treatment of:
Diabetes
Hypertension
Lipid Management
STIs (Including testing and prevention)
HIV and AIDS
Avenue 360 Health & Wellness Women’s Center & OB/GYN
Avenue 360 Health & Wellness offers many services designed uniquely for women throughout the various stages of their life.
Avenue 360 Health & Wellness is committed to the care and well being of women. Our medical staff and associates have extensive experience treating women in the various phases of their lives—maintaining their health along the way. We specialize in high-risk pregnancies and childbirths and the treatment of many reproductive conditions. We now offer colposcopies for treatment and prevention of cervical cancer under our sliding scale.
Pediatrics
We are here to address each and every one of your child’s milestones, maintaining their health from birth through the teen years.
Pharmacy
For your convenience, you can fill your prescriptions immediately after your appointment.
The Class A pharmacy at Avenue 360 Health & Wellness is designed to be convenient for our patients, ensuring that during a single visit you receive both the proper care and the medication you require. The pharmacy at Avenue 360 Health & Wellness prepares and dispenses medication(s) as prescribed by the referring physician as well as conducts counseling with patients regarding the proper use of their prescriptions and any adverse effects of the medication(s). It is imperative that patients who leave our facility leave with the necessary information to properly continue their care.
Most private insurances accepted.
No matter what care or services you receive here, you will be treated with respect and kindness. Our facility makes use of the latest technology and is designed with your comfort in mind.
Behavioral
Health
Behavioral Health & Psychiatry
With the help of individual, couples or group therapy, the behavioral health department identifies your challenges and concerns and assists in working through them to achieve a positive outcome.
Our behavioral health services include substance abuse treatment and mental health therapy for adults and adolescents. Our licensed clinicians are trained to provide behavioral health services in individual, group and family settings in order to most appropriately meet the needs of patients dealing with diverse stressors and conditions.
Avenue 360 Health & Wellness behavioral health services are categorized by:
Psychiatry
Mental Health
Substance Abuse Pre-Treatment and Treatment
Medical Case Management
The treatment process in the majority of behavioral health cases includes screening a patient, forming an assessment, treatment planning, following through and finally, discharge. All patients have twenty-four hour, on-call access to Avenue 360 Health & Wellness’ clinicians via a professional answering service. This service ensures that patients and the on-call clinician connect in urgent situations.
The Avenue 360 Health & Wellness team includes social workers and service linkage workers who provide case management services to patients receiving medical care with our providers. These individuals assist clients with referrals needed in order to maintain positive health outcomes. The goal of this team is to ensure that patients have access to resources necessary to improve their wellbeing, while providing patients with the skills to achieve a positive outcome.
Health Equity
Addressing Social Determinants of Health
Social drivers of health, also known as social determinants of health, are conditions in the places where people live, learn, work, and play that affect a wide range of health and quality-of-life risks and outcomes.
Examples of social determinants of health include:
Income and social protection
Access to Quality Education
Unemployment and job insecurity
Working life conditions
Transportation Issues
Food insecurity
Housing, basic amenities and the environment
Early childhood development
Social inclusion and non-discrimination
As health equity advocates, we provide help with access to food, income/benefits, education, mental health services, and recovery services. In 2023 alone, we helped coordinate stable housing to more than 520 individuals.
We partner to remove barriers to healthcare and gather community feedback to improve health care. We help to address health disparities in our community and all programs and services are offered on a sliding fee scale. No one is turned away for inability to pay.
Support
Medical Case Management
We involve all necessary departments in your treatment to ensure that you receive complete and proper care.
The Avenue 360 Health & Wellness team includes social workers and service linkage workers who provide case management services to patients receiving medical care from Avenue 360 Health & Wellness. These individuals assist clients with referrals needed in order to maintain their health. The goal of this team is to ensure that patients have access to resources necessary to improve their general well being.
Health Promotions Team
With the help of our outreach team of Community Health Workers, we bring Avenue 360 Health & Wellness directly into the community. The most powerful tool we have is education. By presenting people with practical information and through the following services, we promote healthy living, physically and mentally, and empower people to take control of their wellbeing.
Health education and disease prevention
HIV testing
Hepatitis C testing
Counseling
PrEP education and referral
HIV Related Care
Avenue 360 Health & Wellness specializes in providing medical care, support and housing assistance to those living with HIV/AIDS. Our clinicians have decades of experience in managing HIV/AIDS, providing excellent care and improving health outcomes.
Dental
Dental and Oral Health
Oral hygiene is essential to maintaining overall good health. We offer several services to prevent and improve oral health for all patients at every age.
Services include:
Basic Oral Hygiene
General Dentistry (cleaning, fillings, sealants, x-ray, extractions)
Oral Medicine/Oral Pathology (treatment of oral warts, lesions, tumors, etc.)
Prosthodontics (tooth replacement: crowns, bridges and dentures)
Periodontics (treatment of gum disease)
Endodontics (root canal therapy)
Oral Surgery
Stay Connected with Avenue 360
Get health tips, community updates, and important resources delivered straight to your inbox.
First Name (optional)
Email Address (required)
Zip code (optional)
Phone Number (optional)
We respect your privacy. No spam—just helpful updates.
Frequency expectation: 1–2 emails per month
Thank You!
Your appointment request has been submitted successfully.
A member of our team will contact you within 72 business hours to schedule your appointment.
Need Help Sooner?
Emergency: Call 9-1-1
Urgent Assistance: (713) 426-0027
Prepare for Your Visit
Download and complete your patient forms before your appointment.
Download Patient Form
×
Español ( Spanish )
English