Skip to main content
Listen
Consumer Services Division
DISB’s Consumer Services Division helps DC residents with a problem involving your bank, insurance company, mortgage lender, investment advisor, student loan servicer, or other financial service companies and professionals that operate in DC.
DISB will thoroughly review your problem and work with you to identify if there is a solution that works for both you and the institution. If your problem requires further investigation or criminal prosecution, we will refer the matter to the proper authorities.
Who should file a complaint?
You should file a complaint if you are a DC resident, or if the contract was executed in the District of Columbia.
Do all eligible applicants receive help with their problem?
Yes. If Consumer Services can’t help with your problem, we will refer you to the appropriate government agency for help.
What type of financial institutions can DISB investigate?
Examples of financial institutions that DISB investigates include banks, insurance companies, student loan servicers, mortgage lenders, check cashers, service contracts, investment advisors, and appraisal management companies. We can’t help with problems that involve financial institutions that aren’t required to follow DC laws and regulations, but we may be able to help you contact another government agency for help if your problem falls outside of our authority.
What type of issues can DISB investigate?
We can assist with any concerns you have with your bank, insurance company, lender, or other financial institutions regulated to operate in the District of Columbia.
What steps do I need to take to get help?
If possible, contact your financial institution with your problem first.
If you’re uncomfortable contacting the financial institution directly or if your problem is not addressed fairly, request help from DISB online , or by submitting the downloadable form electronically to [email&#160;protected] , or via mail to 1050 First St. NE, Suite 801, Washington, DC 20002.
You can request help with a financial institution at any time.
What happens after I request help?
DISB will confirm receipt of a completed consumer complaint within three business days. This letter will include the name of the person assigned to review your problem. If we find that your financial institution violated DC laws and regulations, we may require the institution to correct the issue.
We will review the facts of your problem, analyze DC laws and regulations, and contact your financial institution for a response.
If we find that your financial institution violated DC laws and regulations, we will require the institution to correct the issue.
We do our best to complete your case within 45 days . We will mail you a letter with the final status of the investigation.
What if I need a lawyer?
Because we can’t represent you in a legal action or offer you legal advice, you may choose to consult an attorney.
FAQ:
Will DISB contact the financial institution I’m having a problem with?
We will forward a copy of your request for help to your financial institution and ask them for an explanation. We’ll review their explanation to determine if they violated DC laws and regulations. If we find a violation, we may require them to take action to correct the problem.
Will DISB help me understand my agreement with the financial institution?
Yes, we may explain the details of your agreement with the financial institution.
What can DISB do to help if the financial institution’s actions didn’t violate any DC laws or regulations?
If we don’t find that the company violated any DC law or regulation, we may suggest alternative solutions for you to resolve your problem. That could include helping you contact another government agency if your problem falls outside of our authority.
Can DISB represent me in court?
No, we can’t be your legal representative or intervene in a lawsuit, in or out of court. However, if we think you might need to take legal action to solve the problem, we’ll let you know. If you are at risk of or involved in a foreclosure, we may refer you to our Foreclosure Prevention Program , which may include legal services.
Can DISB investigate my denied medical insurance claim?
We can investigate whether the insurance company had a good faith reason for denying your medical claim or if they violated your agreement or any DC laws or regulations. However, we can’t give any advice or make any decisions about your medical condition.
Can DISB determine whether the financial institution is telling the truth?
No, we can’t settle disputes of facts surrounding your problem or decide who is telling the truth in a dispute between you and your financial institution.
Can the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) hold my fine until DISB has finished investigating my problem?
No, we can’t ask the DMV to hold your fine while we investigate.
Can DISB recommend a financial institution to me?
No, we can’t make recommendations or help you decide which financial institution to do business with.
Can DISB share confidential documents from the financial institution?
Unfortunately, we can’t share documents that the financial institution says are confidential. We will comply with any court-ordered requests for documents.
I have an unresolved problem from several years ago. Can you help?
It depends. The law only requires that financial institutions keep certain records for 7 years, so if your problem is more than 7 years old, we may not be able to help.
What happens if I am not satisfied with the results of the investigation?
If you are dissatisfied with the results of your complaint investigation, you may request that the findings are reviewed by our Consumer Services management team.
Complaint Forms
You can fill out the complaint form online or complete the PDF version and mail, fax or hand deliver it to the agency.
Mail-in version
File a Complaint Form
Queja para consumidor
Online version
File a Complaint Form
Queja para consumidor
Non-DISB Complaint Options
How to File A Complaint With DISB
October 15, 2021