NDLSHC Page 1 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Instructions for a Name Change – Minor Child (Under 18 Years Old)
Important! Read Before Using These Forms and Instructions!
ND Legal Self Help Center staff and Court employees can’t help you fill out forms. If you’re unsure if
these forms and instructions suit your circumstances, consult a lawyer.
ND Legal Self Help Center forms aren’t official court forms. Judges and courts aren’t required to
accept Center forms. There’s no guarantee Center forms will be accepted. Use at your own risk.
If you need legal advice or legal representation, consult a lawyer licensed to practice in North
Dakota. Go to ndcourts.gov/legal-self-help/finding-a-lawyer for information about finding a lawyer to
represent you.
When you represent yourself, you’re expected to know and follow the law, including:
• State or federal laws that apply to your case;
• Case law, also called court opinions, that applies to your case; and
• Court rules that apply to your case, which may include:
o North Dakota Rules of Civil Procedure;
o North Dakota Rules of Court;
o North Dakota Rules of Evidence;
o North Dakota Administrative Rules and Orders; and
o Any local court rules.
Links to the state laws, case law, and court rules are available at ndcourts.gov.
A glossary with definitions of legal terms is available at ndcourts.gov/legal-self-help.
When you represent yourself, you’re held to the same requirements and responsibilities as a
lawyer, even if you don’t understand the rules or procedures.
These instructions and forms aren’t a complete statement of the law. They cover the basic
procedure for petitioning a North Dakota state district court for the name change of a minor child (less
than 18 years old). If the forms don’t fit your circumstances, consult a lawyer. There’s no guarantee
that all judges and courts will accept forms available through the ND Legal Self Help Center. The
Center isn’t responsible for any consequences that may result from the forms or information provided.
Use these forms and instructions at your own risk.
Requirements for name changes are in North Dakota Century Code Section 32-28-02.
A minor child is less than 18 years old. If a child is 18 years or older, the child is an adult and
must petition for a name change on their own.
NDLSHC Page 2 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Who May Use These Forms?
If you meet All of the following requirements, you may use these forms:
1. You (the Petitioner) are the parent of the minor child.
2. You and your minor child are residents of the North Dakota county where you intend to
file the Petition for at least six months before you file the Petition.
3. Your minor child is either a citizen or a permanent resident alien of the United States.
If you don’t meet All of the requirements to use these forms, consult a lawyer for legal
advice. A lawyer who agrees to represent you can interpret the minor name change laws,
evaluate your options, and give you advice about the best course of action for you take.
Can North Dakota Vital Records Change My Minor Child‘s Sex
Designation on Their Birth Certificate?
Sex: The biological state of being male or female, based on an individual’s
nonambiguous sex organs, chromosomes, or endogenous hormone profiles at birth.
No, the sex designation on a birth record of an individual born in North Dakota may not be
amended or corrected under N.D.C.C. Section 23-02.1-25.1 due to general identity change
unless:
a. The sex of the individual was listed incorrectly on the original birth record as a result of
a scrivener’s error (a clerk, notary, or person who wrote or filled out the document) or
data entry error.
b. The sex of the individual was misidentified on the original birth record and the request
for correction is accompanied by a copy of the results of chromosomal, molecular,
karyotypic, DNA, or genetic testing that identifies the sex of the individual, together with
an affidavit from the health care facility, health care professional, or laboratory testing
facility that conducted the test or analyzed the test results, attesting to the test results
and the accuracy of test results.
c. The sex of the individual was changed with anatomically correct genitalia for the
identified sex as certified by a medical provider.
Note: The North Dakota Legal Self Help Center doesn’t have forms to amend or correct the sex
designation on a North Dakota birth certificate.
NDLSHC Page 3 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
What is the Notice of Name Change Publication Requirement?
North Dakota law requires that you publish notice of your minor child’s name change in the
newspaper before the judge assigned to your case can consider granting the child’s name
change. (See N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02(4).) An Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication,
from the newspaper is your proof you published the notice.
• If your minor child has a non-custodial parent who lives in a different county than the
child, publication is also required in a newspaper in the non-custodial parent’s county.
• A non-custodial parent is a parent with less than 50% of the residential responsibility.
Can I Use These Forms to Ask the Judge to Waive the
Notice of Name Change Publication Requirement?
No, you can’t use this forms set to ask the Judge to allow you to skip publishing notice of
your minor child’s name change in the newspaper.
If you want to ask to waive publication of the notice in the newspaper, consult a lawyer for
legal advice. A lawyer who agrees to represent you can research the laws related to minor
name changes to evaluate whether the laws could be interpreted to allow waiver of publication
in minor name change cases.
Criminal History Record Checks
Review the requirements for getting a criminal history record check Before you start the
name change petition process. The process can take weeks.
Criminal history record check requirements don’t apply to minor name change cases Unless
the judge assigned to your case has reason to believe you’re making the request for any of
the following reasons:
• To defraud or mislead;
• Your request isn’t made in good faith;
• Your request will cause injury to an individual; or
• Your request will compromise public safety.
If the Judge requires a criminal history record check for your minor child for North Dakota or
any other state, you’re required to pay all costs associated with the record check.
NDLSHC Page 4 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
If the Judge requires you to complete a criminal history background check for your minor child,
you may be directed to the following website to get the child’s criminal history background
check: edo.cjis.gov/#/.
Overview of the Name Change of a Minor Child Process
Step 1. Publish the Notice of Petition for Name Change in the Newspaper(s); Serve the
Notice on the Non-Custodial Parent and Complete a Declaration of Service by Mail.
Get the Affidavit(s) (or Declaration(s)) of Publication from the newspaper(s).
Step 2. Wait 30 Calendar Days Before Completing the Rest of the Name Change Forms
Gather any written Objections you receive after publication of the Notice.
Step 3. Complete the Rest of the Name Change Forms.
You must wait 30 calendar days from publishing the Notice of Name Change.
Step 4. 30 Days After Publication, File the Original Petition, Declaration, Confidential
Information Form, Notice of Petition for Name Change, Declaration of Service by
Mail, (Proposed) Order Granting Name Change (Confidential), (Proposed) Order
Granting Name Change (Redacted), Affidavit(s) of Publication, and any Written
Objections with the Clerk of Court.
Pay the $160.00 filing fee or file the completed petition to waive filing fees.
Step 5. Get Your Minor Child’s Criminal History Record Check, If Required to Get One.*
*If the Judge doesn’t require a criminal history background check, skip Step 5.
Step 6. The Judge Decides Whether to Grant the Name Change
The Judge may make a decision without holding a hearing, or may require you to
appear at a hearing before making a decision.
Step 7. Request a certified copy, or copies, of the Confidential Order Granting Name
Change
If the name change is granted, request certified copies of the confidential order.
Forms Needed for Name Change of a Minor Child
1. Notice of Petition for Name Change
2. Declaration of Service by Mail (for Notice of Petition to non-custodial parent)
3. Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child
4. Declaration of Petitioner
5. Confidential Information Form
6. (Proposed) Order Granting Name Change (Confidential)
7. (Proposed) Order Granting Name Change (Redacted)
NDLSHC Page 5 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Step 1:
Complete the Notice of Petition for Name Change Form; Publish
Notice of Petition in the Newspaper(s); Mail a Copy of the Notice to
the Non-Custodial Parent & Complete a Declaration of Service by Mail
North Dakota law requires you to publish notice of your minor child’s name change in the
newspaper before the Judge assigned to your case can consider granting the child’s name
change. (See N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02(4).) An Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication,
from the newspaper is your proof you published the notice.
• If your minor child has a non-custodial parent who lives in a different county than the
child, publication is also required in a newspaper in the non-custodial parent’s county.
• A non-custodial parent is a parent with less than 50% of the residential responsibility.
If you don’t know the address of the non-custodial parent, review page 7 of these instructions
for tips on how to locate the non-custodial parent.
If you want to ask the Judge to waive publication of the notice in the newspaper, consult a
lawyer for legal advice. A lawyer who agrees to represent you can research the laws related to
minor name changes to evaluate whether the laws could be interpreted to allow waiver of
publication in minor name change cases. You can’t use these forms to ask to the Judge to
waive publication in the newspaper.
Complete the Notice of Petition for Name Change Form
You, the minor child’s parent, are the Petitioner in this name change case.
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Notice of Petition for Name Change form:
• Fill in the name of the North Dakota county where you and your minor child currently
live. You and the child must have lived in the county for at least the past 6 months.
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
 Fill in the first paragraph of the Notice of Petition for Name Change form:
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
• Fill in your minor child’s requested first, middle (if any), and last name.
NDLSHC Page 6 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 Date and sign the Notice of Petition for Name Change form:
• Date and sign the Notice.
• Print your name and address.
• If your mailing address is different from your street address, include both addresses.
Write or type your mailing address in the blank space to right of the address block.
Publish the Notice of Petition for Name Change in the Newspaper(s)
Caution: N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02 doesn’t say how many times the Notice of Petition for Name
Change must be printed in the newspaper. N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02 only states that before a Judge
can order a name change, the Petitioner must have given 30 days previous notice in the official
newspaper of the county where the Petitioner lives and in the official newspaper of the county
where the non-custodial parent lives. North Dakota Legal Self Help Center staff can’t interpret
the law for you. Interpretation of a law requires legal advice. Center staff can’t give you legal
advice under any circumstances. If you want the law interpreted for you, consult a lawyer.
 Have the completed Notice of Petition for Name Change published in the official county
newspaper where you and your minor child live.
• Publication can be in the print edition, in the e-edition, or both.
 Important! If your minor child has a non-custodial parent*, you must also have the Notice
of Petition for Name Change published in the official county newspaper where the non-
custodial parent lives, if different from where you live.
*A non-custodial parent is a parent with less than 50% of the residential responsibility.
If you don’t know the address of the non-custodial parent, review page 7 of these
instructions for tips on how to locate the non-custodial parent.
 After publication is complete, the newspaper(s) gives you an Affidavit(s) of Publication, or
Declaration(s) of Publication. Make a copy for your records. (You file the original(s) with the
clerk of court in Step 4.)
Important: You can’t file any documents with the court until 30 days after publication of
Notice in the newspaper(s).
 You may receive written Objections after Notice is published. Make copies of the written
Objections for your records. (You file the original(s) with the clerk of court in Step 3.)
NDLSHC Page 7 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Within 10 Days of Publication in the Newspaper(s), Mail a Copy of the Notice to
the Non-Custodial Parent
 If your minor child has a non-custodial parent, you must mail a copy of the Notice of
Petition for Name Change to the non-custodial parent within 10 days of publication in the
newspaper(s).
• The Notice of Petition for Name Change must be mailed to the last reasonably
ascertainable post office address of the non-custodial parent, postage prepaid, from a
post office in North Dakota.
o Use diligent efforts to locate an address to serve the non-custodial parent. Keep
track of your efforts and the results, including dates.
o Following are examples of ways to find people for service:
• Last known address.
o Contact the U.S. Post Office for more information.
• Friends, family, employers.
• Online search engines.
• Government entities, such as Department of Motor Vehicles or County Recorder.
• North Dakota business entity search, available at the ND Secretary of State
website.
• Social Security Death Index.
• Utility companies.
• Social networking websites.
• Reverse directories.
o A reverse directory allows someone to search by phone number to find an
address. (Your local public library may have access to reverse directories.)
If you can’t find or don’t know the other parent’s address, contact a lawyer for legal advice and
assistance.
Note: If there’s no non-custodial parent (both parents and the child live together, the other
parent is deceased), you skip this step. However, you must inform the court in Paragraph 7 of
your Petition for Name Change and Paragraph 4 of your Declaration of Petitioner that you
didn’t mail the Notice because there’s no non-custodial parent (both parents and the child live
together, the other parent is deceased).
NDLSHC Page 8 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Complete the Declaration of Service by Mail Form
This document is proof that a copy of the Notice of Petition for Name Change was mailed to
the non-custodial parent and the address where it was mailed.
If your minor child has a non-custodial parent, you, the Petitioner, must file a Declaration of
Service by Mail with the court to prove that a copy of the Notice was mailed to the non-
custodial parent.
Important! The copy of the Notice of Petition for Name Change must be mailed from a
United Stated Post Office located in North Dakota by someone who is at least 18 years old!
The copy of the Notice of Petition for Name Change must be mailed by first-class mail, postage
prepaid.
The person who took the Notice of Petition for Name Change to the Post Office and paid the
postage fills out the Declaration of Service by Mail as follows:
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Declaration of Service by Mail form:
• Fill in the name of the North Dakota county where you and your minor child live.
• Leave the case number blank. The case number is assigned by the clerk of court when
you file the petition and other documents in Step 3.
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
 1. Fill in the first paragraph of the Declaration of Service by Mail form:
• The person who took the Notice to the Post Office and paid the postage fills in their full
name.
 2. Stop! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 3. Stop! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 4. Fill in the date the Notice was mailed, and include the city, county, and state where
the post office is located.
 5. Fill in the name of the non-custodial parent, their mailing address, city, state, and zip
code.
 6. You’re declaring under penalty of perjury that all the information stated in this
Declaration of Service is true and correct.
NDLSHC Page 9 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 Date and sign the Declaration of Service by Mail form:
• By dating and signing this document, you’re declaring everything you stated in this
Declaration is true and correct.
• Date and sign the Declaration.
• Print your name, address, telephone number, and email address on the lines following
your signature.
 Make a copy of the Declaration of Service by Mail for your records. (You file the original(s)
with the clerk of court in Step 3.)
Note: If there’s no non-custodial parent (both parents and the child live together, the
other parent is deceased), you skip this step. However, you must inform the court in
Paragraph 7 of your Petition for Name Change and Paragraph 4 of your Declaration of
Petitioner that you didn’t mail the Notice because there’s no non-custodial parent (both
parents and the child live together, the other parent is deceased).
Step 2:
Wait 30 Calendar Days Before Completing the Rest of the Name
Change Forms
The forms in this packet require you, the Petitioner, to tell the Judge whether you received any
Objections to your minor child’s name change in the 30 days after you published Notice in the
newspaper(s).
If you use this packet of forms, you Must wait 30 calendar days from the day after
publication Before you complete the remaining name change forms.
 Calculate 30 calendar days (see Rule 6 of the North Dakota Rules of Civil Procedure):
• Don’t include the date the notice of your minor child’s name change was published;
• Count forward by calendar days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and North Dakota state
holidays; and
• Include the 30th day, but if the 30th day is a Saturday, Sunday, or North Dakota state
holiday, the deadline moves forward to the end of the next day that isn’t a Saturday,
Sunday, or North Dakota state holiday.
 If you receive written objections after the Notice is published, make copies of the written
objections for your records. (You file the originals with the clerk of court in Step 4.)
NDLSHC Page 10 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Step 3:
Complete the Rest of the Name Change Forms
You, the minor child’s parent, are the Petitioner in this action.
Complete the Petition for Name Change of a Minor Form
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child form:
• Fill in the name of the North Dakota county where you and your minor child currently
live. You must have lived in the county for at least the past 6 months.
• Leave the case number blank. The case number is assigned by the clerk of court when
you file the petition and other documents in Step 4.
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
 1. Fill in the first paragraph of Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child form:
• Fill in your first, middle (if any), and last name.
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name on the correct lines
in the box.
 2. Fill in your relationship to the minor child.
 3. Fill in the name and address of your minor child’s other parent. If the other parent is
deceased, on the address line, type or write “died on [date of other parent’s date of
death]”.
 4. Fill in your current address in North Dakota. Stop! If this statement isn’t accurate, you
can’t use these forms.
 5. Fill in your minor child’s current county (where your minor child lives) in North Dakota,
and the month and year the child began living in the county. Stop! If this statement
isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 6. Put a checkmark () next to the option that’s accurate for your minor child’s situation.
Don’t put a checkmark in both options. Stop! North Dakota law requires the minor
child to be either a United States citizen or a permanent resident alien of the United
States. If this isn’t true for your minor child, you can’t use these form.
 7. Fill in your minor child’s birth year. Don’t fill in your minor child’s month and day of
birth. Your child Must be less than 18 years old.
NDLSHC Page 11 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 8. Fill in your minor child’s requested, first, middle (if any), and last name on the correct
lines in the box.
 9. This paragraph tells the court that the reasons you’re asking to change your minor
child’s name are listed in a separate Declaration that you complete and file with the
Petition.
 10. This paragraph tells the Judge that you believe court appointment of a guardian ad
litem for the child is unnecessary. North Dakota law requires the Judge assigned to the
name change case to consider whether to appoint a guardian ad litem to represent your
minor child’s best interests. Stop! If you believe the Judge should appoint a guardian ad
litem to represent your child’s best interests, you can’t use these forms.
 11. Fill in the information related to publishing the Notice of your minor child’s name
change in the newspaper of your child’s county of residence. If you haven’t published
the Notice, go back to Step One of these instructions.
• Fill in the date the notice was published;
• Fill in the name of the newspaper;
• Fill in the county for which the newspaper is the official newspaper for notices.
 12. Fill in the information related to publishing the Notice of your minor child’s name
change in the non-custodial parent’s newspaper of residence. (A non-custodial parent
is a parent with less than 50% of the residential responsibility.)
• Put a checkmark () next to the One box that’s accurate for your situation:
If you checked the box stating your minor child doesn’t have a non-custodial parent,
you’re done with Paragraph 12 and can proceed to Paragraph 13.
You must explain why you believe the child doesn’t have a non-custodial parent in
Paragraph 4 of your Declaration of Petitioner. If the Judge decides your minor child has
a non-custodial parent, see Step One for instructions on publishing Notice and mailing a
copy to the non-custodial parent.
If you checked the box stating your minor child has a non-custodial parent:
o Fill in the date the Notice was published;
o Fill in the name of the newspaper;
o Fill in the county for which the newspaper is the official newspaper for notices;
o Fill in the date you mailed the Notice to the non-custodial parent;
o Fill in the city of the post office the Notice was mailed.
(If the non-custodial parent resides in the same North Dakota county as you and your
minor child, use the newspaper publication information from Paragraph 11.)
NDLSHC Page 12 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 13. Review the 2 checkbox options. Put a checkmark () next to the statement that’s
accurate for your situation. If you choose the second checkbox, for each written
objection you received, list the objector’s name and relationship to your minor child.
 14. Stop! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 15. Stop! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 16. No additional information is required for this paragraph.
 17. Wherefore Paragraph: No additional information is required for this paragraph.
 Date and sign the Petition for Minor Name Change form:
• Date and sign the Petition.
• Print your name and address.
• If your mailing address is different from your street address, include both addresses.
Write or type your mailing address in the blank space below the address block.
Complete the Declaration of Petitioner Form
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Declaration of Petitioner form:
• Fill in the caption exactly like the caption of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor
Child form.
 Fill in the first paragraph of Declaration of Petitioner form:
• Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last name. This must match Paragraph 1 of
your Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child.
 1. No additional information is required for this paragraph.
 2. Fill in your relationship to the minor child. This must match Paragraph 2 of your
Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child.
 3. Fill in the other parent’s first, middle (if any), and last name and their post office
address. This must match Paragraph 3 of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor
Child. If the other parent is deceased, on the address line, type or write “died on [date
of other parent’s date of death]”.
NDLSHC Page 13 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 4. Put a checkmark () next to the box that is accurate for your situation. This must
match the option you chose in Paragraph 12 of your Petition for Name Change of a
Minor Child.
If you checked the box stating the other parent Is a non-custodial parent, explain why
you believe the other parent is a non-custodial parent.
If you checked the box stating the other parent Isn’t a non-custodial parent, explain
why you believe the other parent isn’t a non-custodial parent.
 5. Put a checkmark () next to the option that is accurate for your minor child’s
situation. Don’t put a checkmark in both options. This must match Paragraph 6 of your
Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child.
 6. Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name. This must match
Paragraph 1 of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child.
 7. Fill in the year your minor child was born. This must match Paragraph 7 of your Petition
for Name Change of a Minor Child.
• Fill in where your minor child was born.
 8. Fill in your current address in North Dakota. This must match Paragraph 4 of your
Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child.
 9. Fill in your minor child’s current county (where your minor child lives) in North Dakota,
and the month and year the child began living in the county. This must match
Paragraph 5 of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child.
 10. (First box) Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name (this
must match Paragraph 1 of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child);
(Second box) Fill in your minor child’s requested first, middle (if any), and last name
(this must match Paragraph 8 of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child).
 11. Explain in detail the reasons for the name change and how those reasons are in your
minor child’s best interests.
• If your minor child has criminal convictions under state or federal law, explain how
your request to change your child’s name isn’t based upon an intent to defraud or
mislead, is made in good faith, won’t cause injury to an individual, and won’t
compromise public safety.
NDLSHC Page 14 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
• If you need additional space for your statement, don’t write on the back of the form.
Write on one side of a new sheet (or sheets) of paper and put a checkmark () next
to “Additional sheets attached for Paragraph 11.”
 12. Stop! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 13. Stop! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 Date and sign the Declaration of Petitioner form:
• By dating and signing this document, you’re declaring under penalty of perjury that
everything you stated in this Declaration is true and correct.
• Date and sign the Declaration. Print your name, address, telephone number, and email
address following your signature.
Complete the Confidential Information Form
Note: The public won’t be allowed to access or see this document. See Rule 3.4 of the North
Dakota Rules of Court for privacy protections for documents filed with the court.
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Confidential Information Form:
• Fill in the caption exactly like the caption of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor
Child form.
 Minor Child’s current, full name:
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name. This must match
Paragraph 1 of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child.
 Fill in your minor child’s birthdate information:
• On the “Date of Birth” line, fill in your minor child’s full date of birth (month/day/year).
• On the “Year of Birth” line, fill in your minor child’s Year of birth Only.
Date and sign your (Petitioner’s) name, print your name, address, telephone number, and
email address.
NDLSHC Page 15 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Complete the (Proposed) Order Granting Name Change Form (Confidential)
Note: This document is filed as a confidential document because it contains your minor child’s
full birthdate. The public won’t be allowed to access this document.
See Rule 3.4 of the North Dakota Rules of Court for privacy protections for documents filed with
the court.
You must Exactly match the information you included in your Petition for Name Change of a
Minor Child form and Confidential Information Form.
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the proposed Order Granting Name Change (Confidential)
form:
• Fill in the caption exactly like the caption of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor
Child form.
 1. Fill in the first paragraph of the proposed Order Granting Name Change form:
• Fill in the name of the City where you and your minor child live.
• Fill in the name of the County where you and your minor child live.
• Fill in your current full name.
• Fill in the first box with your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
• Fill in the second box with your minor child’s requested first, middle (if any), and last
name.
 2. Fill in your minor child’s full date of birth (month/day/year).
 3. Skip Paragraph 3.
 4. Fill in both boxes in Paragraph 4:
• Fill in the first box with your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
• Fill in the second box with your minor child’s requested first, middle (if any), and last
name.
Stop! Don’t date or sign this document. If the Judge grants the name change and decides to
use this document, the Judge dates and signs the document.
NDLSHC Page 16 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Complete the (Proposed) Order Granting Name Change Form (Redacted)
Note: This document is Redacted. This means information is edited to remove confidential
information. This document redacts (removes) your minor child’s full birth date and replaces it
with only your child’s year of birth.
The public is allowed to access and see this document. See Rule 3.4 of the North Dakota Rules
of Court for privacy protections for documents filed with the court.
You must Exactly match the information you included in your Petition for Name Change of a
Minor Child form.
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the proposed Order Granting Name Change (Redacted)
form:
• Fill in the caption exactly like the caption of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor
Child form.
 1. Fill in the first paragraph of the proposed Order Granting Name Change form:
• Fill in the name of the City where you and your minor child live.
• Fill in the name of the County where you and your minor child live.
• Fill in your current full name.
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
• Fill in your minor child’s requested first, middle (if any), and last name.
 2. Fill in your minor child’s birth year Only.
 3. Skip Paragraph 3.
 4. Fill in both boxes in Paragraph 4:
• Fill in your minor child’s current first, middle (if any), and last name.
• Fill in your minor child’s requested first, middle (if any), and last name.
Stop! Don’t date or sign this document. If the Judge grants the name change and decides to
use this document, the Judge dates and signs the document.
NDLSHC Page 17 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Step 4:
30 Days After Publication, File the Completed Forms and any Written
Objections with the Clerk of District Court
Contact information for clerks of district court is available at ndcourts.gov/court-locations.
 File originals of the following:
• Petition for Name Change;
• Declaration of Petitioner;
• Confidential Information Form;
• Notice of Petition for a Name Change;
• Affidavit(s) of Publication, or Declaration(s) of Publication, (provided to you by the
newspaper(s));
• Declaration of Service by Mail (for the Notice of Petition to non-custodial parent);
• All written objections you received (if any);
• (Proposed) Order Granting Change of Name (Confidential); and
• (Proposed) Order Granting Change of Name (Redacted).
**Make sure you have a copy of every document for your files!
 The filing fee is $160.00. If you can’t afford to pay the filing fee, forms and instructions to
ask the court to waive the fee are available at ndcourts.gov/legal-self-help/fee-waiver.
File the completed fee waiver forms at the same time as your name change documents.
**Make sure you have a copy of the completed fee waiver forms for your files!**
Step 5:
Get Your Minor Child’s Criminal History Record Check
Stop! Only complete this step if the Judge requires your minor child to get a criminal history
record check!!
After you file the documents in Step 4, the court notifies you if a criminal history record check is
required for your minor child. You’re required to pay all costs associated with the record check.
If the Judge requires you to complete a criminal history record check for your minor child, you
may be directed to the following website to get your child’s criminal history record check:
edo.cjis.gov/#/.
NDLSHC Page 18 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Step 6:
The Judge Decides Whether to Grant the Name Change
**If the Judge requires a hearing:
• A hearing isn’t automatically required for Petitions for Name Changes.
• However, the Judge may decide a hearing is necessary. If the Judge decides a hearing is
necessary, the Clerk of District Court notifies you with the date, time, and location.
• If you’re required to attend a hearing, be prepared to prove everything you included in your
Petition and Declaration forms.
**If your minor child has a criminal history and the Judge required you to complete a criminal
history record check:
• N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02(5) states “if the court issues a name change order for a petitioner who
has criminal history in this or any other state, the court, within ten days after the issuance
of the change of name order, shall report the name change to the bureau of criminal
investigation.”
Your minor child’s name isn’t changed until the judge signs an Order granting the name change.
**If the Judge denies your name change petition:
• If the Judge doesn’t sign an Order granting your minor child’s name change and you want a
different Judge to review the decision, go to the “District Court Appeal to Supreme Court”
webpage at ndcourts.gov/legal-self-help/district-court-appeal-to-supreme-court.
• A Petitioner in a name change case may appeal the final decision to the North Dakota
Supreme Court. The Supreme Court Justices review the Judge’s final decision and decide if
the Judge’s decision is supported by the evidence you presented and by the law.
(This space left intentionally blank.)
NDLSHC Page 19 of 19 Min NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Step 7:
Request a Copy of the Confidential Order Granting Name Change
If the Judge grants your minor child’s name change, you receive a copy of the signed and dated
Order Granting Name Change.
However, a certified copy (or copies) of the Order Granting Name Change may be necessary
to change your minor child’s name with agencies, businesses, other entities, etc.
Request certified copies from the Clerk of District Court’s Office. Contact information is
available at ndcourts.gov/court-locations.
Make sure you request certified copies of the Confidential Order Granting Name Change. The
Confidential Order Granting Name Change includes your minor child’s full birthdate.
If you can’t get a certified copy of the Confidential Order Granting Name Change, get the
following:
• A certified copy of the Redacted Order Granting Name Change; and
• A certified copy of the Confidential Information Form.
If a certified copy of the Confidential Information Form isn’t attached to the Redacted Order
Granting Name Change, North Dakota Vital Records won’t accept the Order Granting Name
Change.
Cost of certified copies:
• $20 for the first certified copy;
• $10 for each additional certified copy (if requested at the same time).