Skip to main content
Scam Alert: Fake DDS Texts and Calls
DDS won’t text or call for fees. Click here for more info.
New DDS Customer Service Center Coming To Oconee County
New center opens Oct 6, 2026 to replace our Athens location.
1. Can I keep my out-of-state or out-of-country license/ID and obtain a Georgia license?
a) Customers transferring an out-of-state license/id card will be hole-punched and returned to customers along with an interim license. The hole punch documents are not valid for driving.
b) Non-US Citizens with an out-of-country license/id or Citizens from US Territories will be allowed to keep their out-of-country/international license/id after obtaining a GA license/id.
c) US Citizens who hold an out-of-country license/id will be allowed to keep their cards with the exception of CDLs.
2. What are the different classes of licenses?
Georgia driver's licenses are classified according to the type, weight of vehicles you plan to operate, and age of driver.
View License, ID, and Permit Types for a full list of licenses issued in Georgia.
3. I am new to Georgia. When can I apply for a driver&#039;s license?
Once you have become a resident of the State of Georgia, you have 30 days to apply for a Georgia driver's license. A person is a resident if any of the following apply:
A person who has a permanent home or abode in Georgia.
A person who accepts employment or who enrolls his/her children in a public or private school within 10 days of becoming employed in Georgia.
Any person that has been present in the state for 30 days or more. See New Georgia License for more information.
4. Am I required to have a medical report to obtain a license?
Yes, if you have or ever had any physical or mental disability, or disease which could interfere with your ability to safely operate a motor vehicle. A Medical Report (Form DS-287) must be completed by your physician. See Medical Information or view the Medical Report form for a list of medical conditions considered for driving purposes. Special restrictions may be required.
5. How can I renew my Georgia driver&#039;s license?
Renewals can be done at any Customer Service Center. You can also renew your license if you qualify online with Online Services, by Mail-In. View Renew License or ID for requirements to renew your license.
6. Where can I take the Knowledge Exam (written exam)?
The Knowledge Exam can be taken at all Customer Service Center locations except the Jackson location. You do not need a Reservation to take the Knowledge Exam.
7. Can the Interim DL/ID be laminated?
Customers should NOT laminate the Interim DL/ID as it will degrade the security features.
8. I recently renewed my license for 8 years, now I&#039;m moving out of state. Am I entitled to a refund?
DDS does not offer any refunds for moving out of state.
9. How much is the driver&#039;s license renewal fee?
See the Fees and Terms page for more information on License/ID/Permit card fees and terms.
10. I lost my Georgia driver&#039;s license/ ID and I don&#039;t want my identity to be stolen. How can I get a new license number?
If your license, ID, or permit has been lost, stolen, or damaged, you can request a License/ID Replacement. A replacement can be done online, through the DDS 2 GO app, or in-person.
If your license or ID was stolen, we recommend the following precautions:
Monitor your banking and credit cards.
Watch for any indication that anyone is using your personal information.
Monitor your personal information by regularly requesting a credit report.
You may also wish to place a fraud alert on your credit file. Driver's License Fraud .
View Replace Lost License/ID for more information.
See the Fees and Terms page for more information on License/ID/Permit card fees and terms.
11. How can I change my name on my Georgia driver&#039;s license/ ID?
You can obtain a name change on your Georgia driver's license/ ID by submitting a certified court order indicating the name change. Marriage certificates, divorce decrees, adoption, gender change, and name change orders are accepted.
If you were married in Georgia after 1982 and wish to hyphenate your name, you must present a certified copy of the marriage license application stating the hyphenated name. Driver's license name changes must be done within 60 days of the name change.
12. I&#039;m not prepared to take a picture; can I use the photo that&#039;s on file from my previous license/ ID?
No, everyone applying, reinstating, or renewing a driver's license/ ID in person must take a new photo.
13. Can I use my P.O. Box as my address?
a) Yes, your P.O. Box can be used as your mailing address. Please note a verifiable Residential Address must be provided for your records.
b) The P.O. Box can be printed on a regular license/id and mailed to the P.O. Box but you must request that your P.O. Box be printed on your regular license/id. The Residential address is the default address.
c) A P.O. Box cannot be printed on a CDL but your card can be mailed to the P.O. Box you provide. The Residential Address will print on your CDL document.
View Georgia REAL ID for a list of acceptable documents proving residential address.
14. How can I replace my lost or stolen driver&#039;s license/ ID?
You can apply for a replacement GA Driver's License or ID. A replacement can be done at any Customer Service Center, Online, or by using the DDS 2 GO Mobile App. For more information, view Replace Lost License/ID .
15. Can I register to vote when I get my license?
Yes, you can begin the process to register to vote when you obtain your license or ID. DDS will forward your voter application to the Georgia Secretary of State’s Office for handling.
You should receive your voter precinct card within 30 days, if not please contact the Georgia Secretary of State .
16. Where do I find information on Customer Service Center locations and hours of operations?
View Customer Service Center (CSC) location and hours.
17. Do I have to visit a Customer Service Center in my county or can I go to any location for service?
You can visit any Customer Service Center (CSC) Location. Many of our services can be handled using Online Services or the DDS 2 GO Mobile App.
Login or Create Online Account
Login or Create Online Account
DDS Online Services
DDS 2 GO Mobile App
DDS 2 GO Mobile App
Download on the App Store
Get It On Google Play
18. Is there a reduced fee if I register to be an organ donor?
Georgia no longer offers an organ donor discount. For more information on registering as an organ donor, please go to our Organ Donor Program page.
19. What do I do if I discovered that my temporary license contains an error resulting in an invalid license or identification?
Please contact us immediately so we can replace the card at no charge to you.
20. How long does it take for the new license to arrive ?
You should receive your permanent DL/ID card within 45 days of receiving your temporary. However, please contact us if you have not received it after 45 days at 678-413-8400.
21. Can I have both a Georgia driver’s license/permit and ID ?
Yes, you can have different documents based on the services you are requesting; however, only one can be a Secure ID document. The demographic information on both licenses must be the same.
22. Can I still get a driver’s license if I am partially disabled?
Depending on the nature of the disability, you may be able to obtain a license by using mechanical aids installed in your vehicle. Contact our Medical Liaison at 678-413-8760 for more information.
23. Does the Department of Driver Services handle car registrations and tags?
No, Georgia Department of Revenue handles all vehicle registration and tags. For more information please visit the Georgia Department of Revenue website.
24. If I am homeless, what do I use as a residential address?
You must obtain a voucher from an approved Indigent Resource Provider (non-profit agency).
25. I&#039;m over the age of 18 and recently moved to Georgia with an unexpired out of state driver&#039;s license/ ID. How can I obtain a Georgia driver&#039;s license/ ID?
If you have an unexpired driver's license/ ID in another state, you will need to have proof of your identity, residency, and citizenship. You must also surrender your out-of-state driver's license/ ID. See New Georgia License
26. Can I use a personal check as proof of residency?
Yes, checks are accepted as proof of residency as long as your full name and address is listed on it.
27. What is the meaning of “existing DL or ID?”
Customers currently holding a valid or unexpired Georgia DL/ID/Permit. If the Georgia DL/ID/Permit is expired, then it must be expired for less than 2 years. NOTE: This does not apply to customers who leave Georgia and return with an out-of-state license.
28. Do you offer the knowledge exam in foreign languages?
Yes, the Road Rules portion of the Knowledge Exam is available in several Foreign Languages. See List of Languages for the complete list. The Road Sign Test, however, is only available in English. All drivers must have the ability to read and understand simple English such as used in highway traffic and directional signs. ( Testing Information ) ( Practice Test )
29. Does the GA DDS accept same-sex marriage certificates?
Yes, on June 26, 2015, the United States Supreme Court ruled that all States recognize same-sex marriage. Same-sex marriage is recognized in the State of Georgia.
30. How can I schedule a Road Test?
Customers can schedule an appointment online. Road Tests are offered at all locations except the location in Downtown Atlanta (400 Whitehall St SW).
Visit Road Test Appointments for more information.
31. Can I call my local CSC to inquire about the wait times or weather conditions for the road test?
No, we are unable to provide information on wait times or weather conditions. Driving tests are not given when weather conditions make it unsafe for the driver or the examiner. Motorcycle test are conducted on wet pavement, but not when there is standing water. Tuesdays are typically busy. Please plan ahead. To schedule your appointment visit the Road Test Appointments page.
32. I&#039;m over the age of 18 and not a U.S. Citizen. How can I obtain a Georgia driver&#039;s license?
If you are a Non-citizen, you must at least provide proof of your legal status in the United States, identity, and residency in Georgia. You must also pass the vision, knowledge, and driving exams. See Drivers from Other Nations for a full list of requirements.
33. Can I apply for an extension on my driver’s license if my immigration documents are still being processed by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services?
Must be an existing DDS customer (currently holding a valid or unexpired Georgia DL/ID Permit)
The Georgia license, permit or identification card must have expired or must be expiring within thirty (30) days
Must provide proof of having requested an extension for time to remain lawfully within the United States. This can be done by presenting an original I-797C Notice of Action.
34. Can I travel with my Temporary (Interim) License?
No. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) no longer accepts temporary licenses and ID cards as proof of identification for travel. Please refer to the TSA website for a list of acceptable documents.
35. Who can sign the application for a minor to get a driver&#039;s license, permit or identification card?
A Parent, Legal Guardian, or Responsible Adult can sign the application for a minor.
36. What is a Real ID License?
Please view the list of Real ID FAQs to learn more about the program.
37. Do I need a CDL if I am driving a motor home or RV?
Generally, you do not need a CDL to drive an RV or Motor Home, as long as it is used for recreational purposes. The primary use of a motor vehicle is used to determine the type of driver’s license required.
A noncommercial class C license is sufficient for a vehicle equipped to serve as temporary living quarters for recreational , camping, or travel purposes when used solely as personal/family transportation.
The definition of a commercial motor vehicle specifically excludes a recreational vehicle (RV), and DDS’s CDL Rule 1-1-.02 states that operators of RVs are exempt from the commercial driver’s license requirement.
38. How do I update my digital Drivers License and ID?
If you have a digital Driver's License and ID it will automatically update when you renew/update your physical card as well as for birthdays and driver status changes ; no action is required on your device.
Did you find what you were looking for on this page?
Extra feedback
Send feedback