Menu
Center for Vital Records and Statistics
Amendments to Birth Records
Amendments to Birth Records
The process of making changes to a birth certificate varies depending on the type of legal change needed and how recently the record was filed. Amendments to vital records are governed by Louisiana statutes and administrative codes. The Vital Records Registry must work within these laws when making amendments to records. Please note that because each situation is different, every application must be reviewed by a specialist to determine whether it is acceptable. If the application is not determined to be acceptable, you will be contacted with additional instructions, which will increase the processing time.
Frequently Asked Questions
How to Correct Minor Errors on a Newborn's Birth Certificate
Minor errors in the child's or parents' names, such as spelling and typographical errors, the sex of the child, the day of birth of the child, and the time of birth can usually be corrected. Vital Records provides a complimentary birth certificate to the parents shortly after a child's birth. The information to be corrected should be listed on the Application to Amend and submitted to Vital Records with the incorrect birth certificate. Vital Records will notify the hospital where the child was born of the parents' request for a correction. The hospital will need to send a letter to Vital Records verifying the correct information in the medical records. If Vital Records receives the correction request within 90 days of the birth certificate file date, there is no charge for the correction.
How to Correct Minor Errors on the Birth Certificate of a Child Up to the Age of 12
Minor errors in the child's or parents' names, such as spelling and typographical errors, the sex of the child, the day of birth of the child, and the time of birth can usually be corrected by a statement from the medical records department at the facility where the child was born. If the facility no longer has the medical records, the parent will need to provide evidentiary documents, such as the child's baptismal certificate, school record, a Social Security Numident printout, or a certified copy of the parent's birth certificate to make the desired correction. (If the parent's birth certificate is in a language other than English, a certified translation into English must be provided.)
How to Change or Correct the First and Middle Name of a Child Up to the Age of 12
An Affidavit for Correction of Given Names can be completed to change a child's first and/ or middle name before the child reaches the age of 12. Both parents listed on the birth certificate must sign the affidavit in the presence of a licensed notary. This form cannot be used to change a child's last name.
How to Name a Child (up to Age 12) Who Has Not Been Named on the Birth Certificate
If the child was not named at birth, an Affidavit for Correction of Given Names can be used to give the child a first and middle name before the child reaches the age of 12. Both parents listed on the birth certificate must sign the affidavit in the presence of a licensed notary. This form cannot be used to change a child's last name.
How to Change the Child's Last Name on a Birth Certificate from Birth to Age 17
If the child's parents would like to add the father and change the child's last name, they can complete an Acknowledgement of Paternity Affidavit. However, this form can not be used if a father is already listed on the child's birth certificate.
Otherwise, a Louisiana court-ordered name change judgment must be obtained to change the child's last name on their birth certificate. A certified copy of the judgment, petition, and district attorney's answer (if applicable) must be submitted to Vital Records to determine if the court order can be used to amend the birth certificate.
How to Correct Minor Errors on a Birth Certificate for an Individual Over the Age of 12
Minor errors in the child's name or parents' names, such as spelling and typographical errors, the sex of the child, or the day of birth of the child can usually be corrected. A certified evidentiary document that has been established for at least five years must be submitted to Vital Records showing the individual's correct birth information (full birth name, date of birth, place of birth, mother's full maiden name, and father's full name).
One of the following documents must be submitted to amend a birth certificate:
Baptismal record
School enrollment record
Application for marriage license
Application for voter registration
Social Security Numident (Numerical Identification Files) - Make a FOIA request for information on how to obtain a printout from the Social Security Administration.
Parent's birth certificate or marriage certificate (if correcting parent's name); if the parent's birth certificate is in a language other than English, a certified translation into English must be provided
Statement from two different U.S.-licensed medical providers (physician, nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or midwife) to correct the sex of the child (not applicable for gender reassignment)
How to Change the Last Name on a Birth Certificate for Individuals Over the Age of 18
If an individual wants to add a father to their birth certificate and change their last name, a properly executed Acknowledgment of Paternity Affidavit can be submitted, along with a District Attorney Affidavit which states that they have no objection to the name change.
Otherwise, a Louisiana court-ordered name change judgment must be obtained to change a person's last name on their birth certificate. A certified copy of the judgment, petition, and district attorney's answer must be submitted to Vital Records to determine if the court order can be used to amend the birth certificate.
How to Add a Father's Name to a Birth Certificate of a Child Born to an Unmarried Mother
If a father is not already listed on the birth certificate, a Two-Party Acknowledgment of Paternity Affidavit can be completed by the mother and the acknowledging father and submitted to Vital Records for processing. The form must be properly executed and free of any altered information.
If either parent is unable or unwilling to complete the Acknowledgment of Paternity Affidavit, a court-ordered judgment of paternity can be obtained to add a father to a birth certificate. The child's last name can be changed to the father's last name with a judgment of paternity only if the father is the petitioner. A certified copy of the judgment and petition should be submitted to Vital Records to determine if the court order can be used to amend the birth certificate.
How to Remove a Father's Name from a Child's Birth Certificate
Any person signing a voluntary Acknowledgment of Paternity may change their mind and revoke their acknowledgment within 60 days of signing the form. The person must complete a Revocation of Acknowledgment of Paternity and file it with Vital Records within the 60-day period.
After 60 days, a parent must file a petition in court in Louisiana to rescind (revoke) the acknowledgment pursuant to R.S. 9:392 A (7) (a & b) or R.S. 9:406. If filed, the petition to rescind the acknowledgment must be based on a claim that the signing of the acknowledgment was because of fraud, duress, or a material mistake of fact. You may need to consult with your attorney regarding what evidence might be needed to prove this claim in court.
How to Add the Biological Father's Name to a Birth Certificate of a Child Born to a Married Mother
If a mother was married at the time of conception and birth of the child, or was not divorced at least 300 days before the child's birth, by law, the husband of the mother is the presumed father and must be listed on the child's birth certificate.
If the mother, the husband/ex-husband (legally presumed father), and the biological father all agree to sign a three-party Acknowledgment of Paternity, the legally presumed father can be replaced by the biological father on the birth certificate. A DNA-based paternity test showing the biological father must accompany this affidavit. This can be done at the time of birth at the hospital, or anytime up until the child's 10th birthday (according to LA CC Article 198). See the information on Acknowledgement of Paternity: Child Born of Marriage.
How to Remove the Husband of the Mother from a Child's Birth Certificate
If a mother was married at the time of conception and birth of the child, or was not divorced at least 300 days before the child's birth, by law, the husband of the mother is the presumed father and must be listed on the child's birth certificate.
If the mother, the husband/ex-husband (legally presumed father), and the biological father all agree to sign a three-party Acknowledgment of Paternity, the legally presumed father can be replaced by the biological father on the birth certificate. A DNA-based paternity test showing the biological father must accompany this affidavit. This can be done at the time of birth at the hospital, or anytime up until the child's 10th birthday (according to LA CC Article 198). See the information on Acknowledgement of Paternity: Child Born of Marriage.
What is the Cost to Correct/Amend a Birth Certificate?
Unless requesting a hospital correction within 90 days of the birth certificate file date, the non-refundable fee for correcting or amending a birth certificate is $27.50, which includes one certified copy of the amended birth certificate. Additional certified copies can be purchased at the time of the amendment for $9 each. If the requester cannot provide the original (incorrect) birth certificate, an additional $15 search fee must be included. Make checks or money orders payable to Vital Records Registry. Please do not mail cash.
How to Submit Your Birth Certificate Amendment Request
Please submit a completed application form and specify the correction(s) desired to the birth certificate. Requests are processed in approximately 8 to 12 weeks from the date of receipt.
The individual requesting a correction to his/her birth certificate must submit a completed application, a legible copy of his/her valid government-issued photo ID, such as a state-issued driver's license or non-driver photo ID, the incorrect birth certificate, and the required fee.
If you are requesting a correction to your child's birth certificate, both parents listed on the child's birth certificate must submit a legible copy of their valid government-issued photo ID, such as a state-issued driver's license or non-driver photo ID, along with the completed application, the child's incorrect birth certificate, and the required fee.
Please mail your request to:
Vital Records Regstry
Attn: Amendments Department
P.O. Box 60630
New Orleans, LA 70160
Contact
For more info or if the correction you desire is not addressed above, contact the Center for Vital Records and Statistics at 504-593-5100 .
Surgeon General
Evelyn Griffin, MD
Secretary
Bruce D. Greenstein
Powered by Cicero Government