Skip to main content
KingCounty.gov is an official government website. Here's how you know
Official government websites use .gov
Website addresses ending in .gov belong to official government organizations in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock lock or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Only share sensitive information on official, secure websites.
Scheduled network maintenance tonight at 6 PM
Our website may be briefly unavailable as a result. We expect work to be completed no later than 8 PM.
×
COURT SCAMS ALERT - Find out how to identify court-related scams and what you can do to help protect yourself, by visiting our Court Scams webpage .
SERVICE ALERT - As of September 15, 2026, King County District Court no longer offers time pay for Auburn cases, in preparation for transitioning to Auburn Municipal Court in 2027. For Auburn case payment options, refer to our Payment Options sheet .
×
If you want your name change sealed, AND you are filing for these reasons, you should file in Superior Court:
1. Gender expression or identity
2. Refugee, special juvenile immigrant status, or asylum status
3. As a victim of domestic violence
4. You are an emancipated minor
King County Superior Court automatically seals name changes under RCW 4.24.130(5) and does not record the name change order with the King County Recorder's Office. Contact the Superior Court Clerk's Office for details.
All name change orders issued by King County District Court will be viewable as a public record through the King County Recorder's Office.
Name change process
The person requesting a name change is called the “petitioner.” More than 1 petitioner may be included in a name change case. For example, a married couple, or a mother and her child, may be included in 1 name change case.
The first step to change your name is to file a Petition for Name Change with the Court. You must submit a separate Petition for Name Change for each person you are requesting a name change for. If a judge grants your name change request, the Court will issue a single order that changes all person’s names.
After you file your Petition for Name Change, the Court will schedule you to appear before a judge (this appearance is called a “hearing.”) The Court will let you know when and where your hearing is held.
Valid photo ID is required. Proof of ID is required at time of filing. You must also bring your ID to your Name Change hearing. If your Photo ID does not show that you live in Washington state, you will need to submit documentation showing you are a current Washington resident. For minor name changes, copies of the parent’s ID and paperwork establishing parental relationship ( e.g., birth certificate) is required at time of filing. The judge also may require consent of both parents either in person or with notarized written consent.
If the person for whom you are seeking a name change is a minor, 14 to 17 years old, they must attend the hearing. Children under 14 years old may be required to attend at the judge's discretion.
If a judge grants your name change request, the Court provides you a certified copy of the name change order after your hearing. The Court also records your name change with the King County Recorder's Office.
Only the Order needs to be recorded, not your Petition for Name Change. Recording takes 6 to 8 weeks, and a copy with the Recorder's number will be returned to you.
Sealed name changes
Only King County Superior Court automatically seals name changes and does not report the change to the King County Recorder's Office under RCW 4.24.130(5).
District Court does not automatically seal name change files . You may request the judge do so at the time of your name change hearing. If you have already had your name change hearing, you must submit a written request to seal. The Court will hold a hearing on your request and you must attend that hearing.
It is within the judge's discretion to seal the name change order and the record of proceeding after analyzing the factors in Washington State Supreme Court General Rule 15. Your request to seal the record could be denied. Every name change order will be filed with the King County Recorder's Office and will be viewable as a public record.
Name change costs
There are TWO FEES you must pay for a name change: 1) Filing fee; and 2) Recording fee.
1. Filing fee
This fee includes 1 certified copy of the name change order; additional certified copies are $5 each.
Cost
$98 per application (only collected once for a family name change)
Payment method
Payable to King County District Court by:
Cash
Check
Money order
Credit card
2. Recording fee
A separate check is required for each named individual in the Petition for Name Change. You must bring this payment to your scheduled hearing.
Cost
Individual name change petition : $203.50.
Family name change petition : $204.50 for the first named person, plus $203.50 for each additional named person.
Payment method
This payment must be made payable to King County Recorder's Office in the form of a:
Check
Must have pre-printed name and address
Check number must be higher than 100
Money order
Cashier's check
Requesting a fee waiver
If you are not able to pay the filing fee, recorder's fee, or both, you may request a fee waiver. You will need to file your name change either by mail or in person. Submit a Motion and Declaration for Waiver of Civil Fees and Surcharges along with your Petition for Name Change.
A judge will review your request for fee waiver.
File a name change petition
You can file a petition to change your name in 1 of 3 ways:
In person
Fill out the appropriate form for your situation:
Petition for Name Change (Individual)
Petition for Minor Child Name Change
Hand in the completed form to the clerks at any King County District Court location .
Pay the King County District Court filing fee and recording fee.
Online
Refer to instructions to e-file for a name change
Register for a free e-filing portal account.
Log into the District Court e-filing portal
Fill out the appropriate form for your situation:
Petition for Name Change (Individual)
Petition for Minor Child Name Change
The system will direct you to pay the King County District Court filing fee.
Although you will have paid the filing fee online, you must bring the Recording fee with you to your hearing &ndash; in the form of a check, money order or cashier's check made payable to the King County Recorder's Office.
By mail
Fill out the appropriate form for your situation:
Petition for Name Change (Individual)
Petition for Minor Child Name Change
Mail the completed form to any King County District Court location .
Include the King County District Court filing fee as listed under Name Change Costs. You must bring the Recording fee with you to your hearing.
Changing your birth certificate
If you were born in Washington state and wish to change the legal name on your birth certificate, visit the Washington State Department of Health Center for Health Statistics Changing Birth Certificates .
Name change hearing timeline and schedule
Hearing scheduling timeline
The Court will schedule your name change hearing based on the form of payment you use for the King County District Court fees:
Within 90 days if you pay by cash or approved voucher from King County.
After 30 days, but no more than 90 days, if you pay by any other method than cash or approved voucher.
Filing and hearing schedule
The District Court typically holds name change hearings on the following days and times. These days and times are subject to change. The Court will notify you when and where your name change hearing will be held.
Location
Hearing days and times
Bellevue Courthouse
Mondays and Fridays at 1:00 p.m.
Petitions must be filed by 11:00 a.m. the same day
Burien Courthouse
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at 1:00 p.m.
Petitions must be filed by 11:00 a.m. the same day
Issaquah Courthouse
Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 1:00 p.m.
Petitions must be filed by 11:00 a.m. the same day
Maleng Regional Justice Center
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 1:05 p.m.
Petitions must be filed by 11:00 a.m. the same day
Redmond Courthouse
Tuesdays and Fridays at 1:05 p.m.
Petitions must be filed by 11:00 a.m. the same day
Seattle Courthouse
Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays at 1:05 p.m.
Petitions must be filed by 11:00 a.m. the same day
Shoreline Courthouse
Wednesdays and Fridays at 11:00 a.m.
Petitions must be filed by 9:00 a.m. the same day
Name change forms
Motion and Declaration for Waiver of Civil Fees and Surcharges
Petition for Name Change (Individual)
Petition for Minor Child Name Change