Your browser is extremely outdated and cannot properly display our website. Update your browser!
Skip To Main Content
DHHS DPH SCHS NC Vital Records Fees and Payment
NC Vital Records: Fees and Payment
North Carolina law requires payment before a certificate search or a service can be provided. Fees are not refundable after a search or service has been provided. Certificates are sent first class mail unless otherwise requested and additional fees are applied. When ordering through N.C. Vital Records, our fee schedule is as shown below.
Payment Processing and Order Delivery
As indicated in the fee schedule table, there is a $24 search (and one copy) fee per each three-year period (or portion thereof) that is nonrefundable , even if a record is not found, so we must process payments before completing the order .
Due to order volume and system migrations from paper to electronic, there will usually be a lag time between your payment being processed and orders being completed and delivered to you , especially if there are issues to be researched and addressed with orders (e.g., amendments to certificates).
If a record is not found during the search, then we will be in touch.
Payments above the $24 search fee can be refunded when a record is not found and an order is cancelled.
See our current processing times for certificate and order types.
Methods of Payment
Fees may be paid by one of the following methods:
For Mailed-In Orders
Money order
Certified check
Business check
We DO NOT accept cash via the mail.
We DO NOT accept personal checks via the mail.
Make all certified checks, business checks, and money orders payable to "NC Vital Records" .
For Online or Phone Orders
Personal check, credit or debit card through VitalChek .
For In-Person Orders
We accept major credit cards and electronic check payments.
Cash is accepted for in-person services only. Please do not send cash in the mail .
In-person certificate service is available by appointment only . Details are available on the Order page.
Make all checks and money orders payable to "NC Vital Records".
Fee Schedule
Search or Service
Fee
Fee Notes
Standard certificate search fee for one three-year period (includes one copy of the certificate, if a record is found)
$24 ( The search fee applies to any certificate type and is nonrefundable, even if a record is not found. )
See other search or service types below, such as Birth Certificates after Adoptions . Search fees and expedite fees are nonrefundable , even if a record is not found. If no record is found, you will be sent a letter.
Additional searches ( each additional three year period or portion thereof)
$24 (As noted above, search fees are nonrefundable .)
VitalChek processing fee
$13.95 ( This is a nonrefundable processing fee if you order through VitalChek .)
VitalChek is the only authorized vendor through which constituents may submit a remote order for a state-issued, certified birth certificate. VitalChek charges a processing fee, and all major credit cards are accepted, including American Express, Discover, MasterCard or VISA. VitalChek also accepts personal checks.
Additional copies of same certificate
$15 each
Amending birth or death certificates or fetal death reports
$15
Birth Certificates after adoption
$15 for the preparation of the new certificate + $24 for the first copy of the requested certificate + $15 for each additional copy.
Court-Ordered name changes
$15 for the name change + $24 for the first copy of the requested certificate + $15 for each additional copy.
Expedited processing fee
$15; Expedited in-person service is available by appointment only. Alternatively, you may order a birth, death or marriage certificate from your Register of Deeds .
Expedite fees are nonrefundable even if a record is not located.
Legitimations
$15 for the legitimation request + $24 for the first copy of the requested certificate + $15 for each additional copy.
Paternities
$15 for the paternity request + $24 for the first copy of the requested certificate + $15 for each additional copy.
Shipping
There is no charge for regular shipping. Overnight shipping costs vary.
July 13, 2026