North Dakota Medicaid
Billing and Policy Manual
Gender Affirming Care and Services
Updated: July 2026
1 | P a g e
Gender Affirming Care and Services
Purpose
ND Medicaid covers medically necessary gender affirming care and services provided
to members with a qualifying diagnosis.
Applicability
Eligible Providers
To receive payment from ND Medicaid, the eligible servicing and billing provider
National Provider Identifiers (NPI) must be enrolled with ND Medicaid on the date of
service. Servicing providers acting as a locum tenens provider must be enrolled with ND
Medicaid and be listed on the claim form. Please refer to provider enrollment for
additional details on enrollment eligibility and supporting documentation requirements.
Gender affirming care services can be provided by the following enrolled providers as
allowed by their scope of their licensure:
• Physicians
• Nurse Practitioners (NPs)
• Physicians Assistants (PAs)
• Clinical Nurse Specialists (CNSs)
• Licensed Psychologists
• Licensed Clinical Social Workers (LCSWs)
• Licensed Professional Clinical Counselors (LPCCs)
• Licensed Professional Counselors (LPCs)
• Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists (LMFTs)
Eligible Members
Providers are responsible for verifying a member’s eligibility before providing services.
Eligibility can be verified using the ND Medicaid MMIS Portal or through the Automated
Voice Response System by dialing 1.877.328.7098.
Refer to the Member Eligibility Manual for additional information regarding eligibility
including information regarding limited coverage categories.
North Dakota Medicaid
Billing and Policy Manual
Gender Affirming Care and Services
Updated: July 2026
2 | P a g e
Covered Services and Limits
General Provider Policies
The General Provider Policies details basic coverage requirements for all services.
Basic coverage requirements include:
• The provider must be enrolled in ND Medicaid;
• Services must be medically necessary;
• The member must be eligible on the date of service; and
• If applicable, the service has an approved service authorization.
The Procedure Code Look-up Tool can be used to identify if a procedure code is
covered by ND Medicaid along with code specific details such as ORP requirements,
Service Authorization requirements, and current rates.
A prerequisite for gender affirming care and services is for contraindicated medical and
behavioral health conditions to be addressed and well-controlled. Members must also
have:
• A clinical diagnosis of gender dysphoria; and
• Provided informed consent which indicates understanding of procedure/process,
risks and outcomes expected. If a member is under 19 years of age, a parent or
legal guardian must provide informed consent.
Hormone Therapy Services
Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Therapy delays the onset of puberty and/or
continued pubertal development. GnRH therapy should be initiated at the first physical
changes of puberty, confirmed by pubertal levels of estradiol or testosterone, but no
earlier than Tanner stages 2-3. Prior to initiation of GnRH therapy adolescents must:
• Have a comprehensive mental health evaluation,
• Be evaluated by an endocrinologist, and
• Be referred to a licensed behavioral health provider for concurrent counseling.
GnRH therapy must be rendered under the direction of an endocrinologist and
concurrent with behavioral health counseling. Medical assessments are to be performed
at a frequency determined by the endocrinologist.
Cross-Sex Hormone Therapy
Cross Sex-Hormone Therapy is a course of hormone replacement therapy intended to
induce or change secondary sex characteristics.
North Dakota Medicaid
Billing and Policy Manual
Gender Affirming Care and Services
Updated: July 2026
3 | P a g e
• Behavioral health counseling is required for the first twelve (12) months at a
frequency determined to be clinically appropriate by the licensed behavioral
health provider.
• Individual must receive medical assessments at a frequency determined to be
clinically appropriate by the prescribing provider.
Surgical Procedures
Gender Confirmation Surgery (also known as gender affirmation surgery or sex
reassignment surgery) means a surgery to change primary or secondary sex
characteristics to affirm a person’s gender identity. To be considered for gender
confirmation surgery, a member must:
• Be at least 18 years of age;
• Have lived in the desired gender role for twelve (12) continuous months;
• Be evaluated by a licensed behavioral health provider within the past sixty (60)
days; and
• Have completed twelve (12) continuous months of hormone therapy, unless
medically contraindicated.
Medical records must be retained and include a signed statement from a licensed
behavioral health provider with whom the member has an established and ongoing
relationship.
Prior to surgery, a post-operative plan of care must be in place which includes
behavioral health counseling, appropriate physical care, and hormone replacement
therapy.
Covered Surgical Procedures
• Clitoroplasty
• Erectile prosthesis (one per lifetime)
• Hysterectomy
• Labiaplasty
• Mammoplasty – after twenty-four (24) continuous months of hormone therapy
• Mastectomy
• Orchiectomy
• Ovariectomy/oophorectomy
• Penectomy
• Permanent hair removal to treat surgical tissue donor sites only
• Phalloplasty
• Prostatectomy
North Dakota Medicaid
Billing and Policy Manual
Gender Affirming Care and Services
Updated: July 2026
4 | P a g e
• Salpingo-oophorectomy
• Scrotoplasty
• Testicular prostheses
• Urethroplasty
• Vaginectomy
• Vaginoplasty
• Vulvectomy
• Vulvoplasty
Revisions to surgeries for the treatment of gender dysphoria are only covered in cases
where the revision is required to address complications of the surgery (wound
dehiscence, fistula, chronic pain directly related to the surgery, etc.)
Service Authorization Requirements
Surgical services for gender affirmation require prior authorization before services are
rendered. For more information, please visit the Acentra website.
Non-Covered Services
General Non-Covered Services
The Non-covered Services Policy contains a general list of services that are not covered
by North Dakota Medicaid.
Additional non-covered services include:
• Reversal of any surgical procedure listed in this policy;
• Revisions for cosmetic issues (e.g. laser hair removal from sites other than
surgical grafting sites, chondrolaryngoplasty, and facial feminization, liposuction,
gluteal implants, hydrogel and silicone injections);
• Services to reverse effects of hormone induced changes; and
• Maintenance of fertility, cryopreservation of ova or sperm, infertility treatment.
Documentation Requirements
General Requirements
Providers must keep legible medical and financial records that fully justify and disclose
the extent of services provided and billed to ND Medicaid. Records must be retained for
at least 7 years after the last date the claim was paid or denied. Providers must follow
the documentation requirements in the Provider Requirements Policy.
North Dakota Medicaid
Billing and Policy Manual
Gender Affirming Care and Services
Updated: July 2026
5 | P a g e
Reimbursement Methodology and Claim Instructions
Timely Filing
ND Medicaid must receive an original Medicaid primary claim within one hundred eighty
(180) days from the date of service. The time limit may be waived or extended by ND
Medicaid in certain circumstances. The Timely Filing Policy contains additional
information.
Third-Party Liability
Medicaid members may have one or more additional sources of coverage for health
services. ND Medicaid is generally the payer of last resort. Providers must pursue the
availability of third-party payment sources. The Third Party Liability Policy contains
additional information.
Client Share (Recipient Liability)
Client share (recipient liability) is the monthly amount a member must pay toward the
cost of medical services before the Medicaid program will pay for services received. The
Client Share Policy contains additional information.
Reimbursement
A claim for services must be submitted at the provider’s usual and customary charge.
Payment for services is limited to the lesser of the provider’s usual and customary
charge or the ND Medicaid calculated reimbursement.
Claim Form
Professional Gender-Affirming Care must be billed using the CMS-1500 claim form or
837p electronic transaction. Facility Gender Affirming-Care Services must be billed on a
UB-04 or 837I transaction. Detailed claim instructions are available on the ND Medicaid
Provider Guidelines, Policies & Manual webpage.
Claim Requirements
The Federal Consent for Sterilization or the Physician Certification for Medically
Necessary Hysterectomy and Member Acknowledgement of Sterility (SFN 614) must be
attached to the claim or received within 14 days, or the claim will be denied. Charges
related to a sterilization procedure during hospitalization must be entered in the
Notes/Remarks section on the Web Portal or the billing notes section for EDI
transactions.
North Dakota Medicaid
Billing and Policy Manual
Gender Affirming Care and Services
Updated: July 2026
6 | P a g e
Two forms can be used for submission of claims attachments: the MMIS Cover Page
(SFN 177) or the MMIS Web Portal confirmation page. One of these documents needs
to accompany the claims attachments. Review our Claims Attachments policy for further
information.
References
• North Dakota Administrative Code
• North Dakota Century Code
• Code of Federal Regulations
Related Policies
• Sterilization and Hysterectomy
Contact
Medical Services
600 East Boulevard Ave
Bismarck, ND 58505-0250
Phone: (701) 328-2310
Email: dhsmedicalservices@nd.gov
Policy Updates
October 2025
• Policy updated to new format.
April 2026
• Formatting changes made throughout the policy.
July 2026
• ADA updates made throughout the policy.