DONATE NOW
Because justice for some is no justice at all.
Lakeshore Legal Aid is a not-for-profit law firm providing a range of free civil legal services to people who are low income, older adults, and survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault in our communities.
WHAT WE DO
Civil Services, Older Adult Services, Family Law, Domestic Violence and more.
SERVICES
FIND LEGAL HELP
Apply by phone at
(888) 783-8190
or online.
Apply Online Here
SUCCESS STORIES
Learn more about what we&#8217;ve been doing, and how we may be able to assist you.
STORIES
Meet Lakeshore Legal Aid
Lakeshore Legal Aid takes pride in providing Michigan with excellence in advocacy and civil legal counsel since 1966. Our attorneys offer professional legal advice and counseling, document review and preparation, negotiation, mediation, and representation in court to improve the legal status of the men, women, and families we serve.
NOTICE: The information provided within this website is not intended to be legal advice and visitors to this website should not act upon this information without consulting with legal counsel.
Our Mission
Standing with our neighbors, Lakeshore Legal Aid fights poverty and injustice through advocacy and by providing meaningful and dignified access to the legal system.
Our Vision
A future free from poverty and injustice through fair access to the legal system.
News
Help Shape Lakeshore&#8217;s Website
We’re working on improvements to our website and would love to hear from you. This short survey is a chance to share what’s working well and what could be clearer.
Take the Survey
Family Law Assistance Project
2026 Dates
Need help with a family law matter? The Family Law Assistance Project (FLAP) offers free legal advice and brief services at in-person clinics in 2026 from 12–3 p.m. To find out more, please use the flyer QR Code or click the button below.
Find Out More
Legally Speaking
CEO Ashley Lowe hosts important and thought-provoking discussions on critical legal issues that not only educate but impact the communities we serve. Click on the below button to view the shows.
Legally Speaking Shows
Video Library
Lakeshore is excited to share the launch of its video library! These videos were developed to be useful to Michigan families with common civil-legal questions.
Video Library
We would like to thank all of our supporters who help us serve the members of our communities
Area Agency on Aging 1-B, AgeWays
Legal Services Corporation
Michigan State Bar Foundation
Oakland County Bar Foundation
St. Clair County Millage
United Way
Lakeshore Legal Aid
About Us
Locations
Contact Us
Annual Report
Newsletters
Get Involved
Donate
Volunteer
Success Stories
Website Feedback Survey
Resources
Michigan Legal Help
AAA 1-B Connect Guide
HIPAA Notice
¿Hablas Español?
هل تتحدث العربية؟
LSC&#8217;s HeartlandDisasterHelp.org
Scroll to top
Safety Exit