Go to Content
In This Section
Transgender and Nonbinary Identities
How do I know if I’m transgender?
What do I need to know about transitioning?
Coming out as trans and/or nonbinary.
Transgender Identity Terms and Labels
Sex and Gender Identity
What are gender roles and stereotypes?
Gender transition is different for each person. There aren’t any specific steps required for someone to transition — it’s all about what feels right for you. It’s sort of like a buffet, where you can try everything, a few things, or nothing at all. Also, you may not want or have access to some kinds of transition.
What does it mean to transition?
Transitioning is about making changes so that you can live in your gender identity . These changes can include changing your name or getting gender-affirming medical care . People often transition to reduce gender dysphoria and/or increase gender euphoria .
How long does transitioning take?
Transitioning isn’t necessarily a straight line or direct route. Transitioning can be a long and ongoing process, or it can happen over a short period of time. You might try out different things as you learn what’s best for you.
The transition process is about becoming more fully yourself — in body, mind, and relationships. So, people sometimes call transitioning “congruence.”
How do I start transitioning?
You can start by learning about the different areas of transition, or ways to affirm your gender :
internal
social
legal
physical (medical and non-medical)
Internal transition changes the way you see yourself.
You might try dressing differently when you’re by yourself, calling yourself by a different name only in your head, or practice using your voice differently. You might start to notice times that you feel gender dysphoria or gender euphoria. Other people might not know about or be able to see this kind of transition.
Social transitioning may include things like:
coming out to your friends and family as transgender or nonbinary;
asking people to use pronouns that feel right for you;
going by a different name;
dressing/grooming in ways that feel right for you when other people can see you; and
using your voice differently when talking to other people.
Legal transition changes information about your gender in official records and government documents.
While the laws vary in different states, you might legally change your name and/or gender marker on formal records, like:
your driver’s license, state ID, or passport;
your birth certificate;
your social security number;
your immigration documents, permanent resident card, or naturalization certificate;
with your school or employer; and
with your doctor or health insurance.
Some kinds of legal transition require paperwork and can be expensive. Some can be free and pretty easy. It depends on where you live and what you want to change.
Learn how to change your name and/or gender marker on legal documents at the National Center for Transgender Equality .
Physical transition is about changing your body, either temporarily or permanently, to line up with your gender identity.
Non-medical physical transition includes ways that you can temporarily change your body without a doctor’s help. They're often low-cost or free. They include:
chest binding , using clothing like binders or sports bras to flatten your chest;
stuffing , using materials like a padded bra, padded underwear, or tissue paper to make your chest, hips, or butt look fuller;
tucking , hiding your penis and/or scrotum to make your groin flatter; and
packing , using items like a packer, cup, or balled-up socks to give your groin a bulge.
All of these strategies are temporary. So, someone can do them regularly, for special occasions, just one time, or while they wait to access medical transition.
Medical physical transition — longer lasting ways to transition — include working with a nurse or doctor.
For trans men and some nonbinary people, medical transition may include any of the following:
gender-affirming hormone therapy : taking hormones to develop secondary sex characteristics such as a deeper voice, facial hair growth, muscle growth, redistribution of body fat away from hips and breasts, and not getting a period;
mastectomy, also called “ top surgery :” the removal of breasts and breast tissue;
voice training: working with a professional to learn to use your voice differently;
laryngoplasty: surgery that changes your vocal chords;
hysterectomy : the removal of internal reproductive organs such as the ovaries and uterus;
phalloplasty : construction of a penis using skin from other parts of your body;
metoidioplasty : surgery that makes your clitoris longer and more flexible, like a penis;
scrotoplasty: surgery that creates a scrotum and testes;
vaginectomy or vulvectomy: surgery that removes your vagina and/or vulva — commonly combined with other genital surgeries;
nullification: surgery that hides or removes all external genitals, like the clitoris or vulva, to create a smooth groin; and
fertility preservation: saving eggs that can be used to have biological children in the future.
For trans women and some nonbinary people, medical transition may include any of the following:
gender-affirming hormone therapy: taking hormones to develop secondary sex characteristics such as breasts, redistribution of body fat toward hips and breasts, and less body hair;
breast augmentation: also called “ top surgery ” (aka implants);
voice training: working with a professional to learn to use your voice differently;
laryngoplasty: surgery that changes your vocal cords;
laser hair removal: removing hair from your face, neck, or other parts of your body;
tracheal shave: making your Adam’s apple smaller;
facial feminization surgery: surgeries that change the shape and/or size of parts of your face, like your nose, lips, cheeks, or jaw;
orchiectomy : removal of testes;
vaginoplasty : creation of a vagina, often by inverting the skin of the penis;
nullification: surgery that hides or removes all external genitals, creating a smooth groin; and
fertility preservation: saving sperm that can be used to have biological children in the future.
Gender-affirming medical procedures vary in cost and availability. Some procedures might be covered by your insurance , and others might not be. This depends a lot on where you live and what kind of medical care you can access.
Do people transition in different ways, orders, and paces?
Yes. For example, you could transition socially without wanting any medical procedures. You could transition medically by doing one or only a few of the procedures listed above. You could change your name and gender marker on formal records. You might transition internally and not feel ready to or not want to transition in other ways.
Do all trans and nonbinary people transition?
No. Transitioning is not a requirement for being trans, nonbinary, or any gender identity. Not all trans people want the available medical procedures or other ways of transitioning.
Access to resources and support also shapes whether you transition. Medical procedures can be expensive, and not everyone has the money or health insurance coverage to afford them.
Transgender people who don’t transition at all, or don’t transition in certain ways, are just as real as those who do. Someone’s gender identity should always be respected.
Need answers? Chat with us.
Chat online to get answers about pregnancy, birth control, emergency contraception, STDs, and abortion.
Chat Now
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all