Peer Support Meetings
Trans Spectrum of Arizona facilitates confidential and safe peer support group meetings for all transgender identified or questioning individuals and their allies. All peer support meetings are for adults 18 and older. If you are under 18 or are seeking support for someone who is, we recommend contacting One n Ten .
Meeting schedules and locations are provided on our calendar . Additional updates are provided in our newsletter . Please subscribe to stay up to date.
Meeting Location & Schedule
Virtual
Our virtual meetings are held on the following schedule.
1st and 3rd Wednesday of every month, 6:30pm to 8pm
3rd Saturday of every month, 11:00am to 12:30pm
Virtual meetings are conducted through our Discord server. An invitation to our Discord server is in the event details on the calendar and in our newsletter .
In-Person
In-person meetings are held at First Church UCC Phoenix, 1407 N 2nd St, Phoenix, AZ 85004, USA on the following schedule:
2nd & 4th Saturdays of every month, 11:00am to 1:30pm. First 60 minutes: SOFFA and trans break-out sessions. Second 60 minutes: blended group sessions.
Every Tuesday of every month, 6:30pm to 8pm. Tuesday meetings are blended sessions for the entire duration.
Frequently Asked Questions
Why are meetings held in a church? Is TSAZ a religious organization?
Trans Spectrum of Arizona is a secular organization. We are not affiliated with any religious or spiritual institutions. Space is or may be rented from religious institutions by Trans Spectrum of Arizona to host our community programs.
How do I get in to the meeting when I arrive?
There will be a doorbell labeled &#8220;TSAZ&#8221; on the door at the far end of the church parking lot from 2nd st. Ring this bell and someone will come let you in.
Do I need to sign up or do anything to attend the support meetings?
There is currently no registration for our in-person meetings. You will be asked to sign in using a QR code and to fill out a brief form when you attend an in-person meeting.
Virtual meetings require Zoom registration or membership to our Discord server. The registration information is provided provided in our newsletter and on our calendar .
Is there an entry fee to attend your support meetings?
We do not charge for any of our peer support meetings, however donations are always welcome and help us continue to provide these meetings.
Some public events we host might ask for an entrance fee as a donation. That information is provided on a per-event basis in our newsletter .
What topics are discussed?​
The meetings are open to all topics. This can be casual conversation or we can talk about specific information that you or others might need advice on. The discussion is fluid.
Can I help facilitate support meetings?​
Please check our v olunteer page for more information and to sign up. Up to date information will be provided in our newsletter . If you have any further questions, please contact us .
Are peer support meetings offered for specific identity groups?​
We currently &#8220;break out&#8221; into two groups for the first half of our Saturday in-person meetings: all trans identities in one session together, and all SOFFA in another session for the first hour of the meeting. The two groups then join for the second hour in a blended group meeting.
All Tuesday in-person meetings and virtual meetings are blended identity meetings.
How do you define identity groups?​
We use the following definition of identity groups for the purposes of our meetings:
SOFFA
Cisgender significant others, friends, families, and allies of transgender people.
Gender Questioning
Individuals who are questioning their gender identity but aren&#8217;t sure if they&#8217;re transgender or otherwise gender nonconforming or gender expansive.
Trans/Transgender
Includes all transgender identities, defined as follows:
Gender Expansive / Diverse &#8211; Individuals identifying outside or in-between the binary. Non-binary, genderqueer, genderfluid, and bi-gender, are some identities that are considered gender expansive.
Trans Feminine &#8211; Transgender women and trans feminine identifying individuals.
Trans Masculine &#8211; Transgender men and trans masculine identifying individuals.
What is a 'Blended Group'?​
This means that the meeting will have all gender identities and/or groups together. So all participants will be in the same peer support meeting.
Do you have an elder or 50+ group?​
We do not have a separate meeting for individuals 50+. Everyone 18 years old and older is welcome to attend our meetings and we ensure everyone has a chance to speak during our meetings if they want to.
If you have questions that aren&#8217;t answered there, please contact us .