Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
1
8
________________________________________________________________________
GENDER AFFIRMATION SURGERY
The primary purpose of this policy is to assist providers enrolled in the Connecticut Medical Assistance
Program (CMAP) with the information needed to support a medical necessity determination for gender
affirmation surgery. By clarifying the information needed for prior authorization of services, HUSKY Health
hopes to facilitate timely review of requests so that individuals obtain the medically necessary care they need
as quickly as possible.
Gender affirmation may involve social, medical and/or legal steps that affirm a person's gender. Gender
affirmation surgery is one of the possible steps in this process. This surgery includes a variety of procedures
that some transgender or gender diverse people may use to affirm their gender. Gender affirming surgery
includes pelvic or gonadal surgery (hysterectomy, orchiectomy, ovariectomy, or salpingo-oophorectomy),
genital surgery (clitoroplasty, labiaplasty, metoidioplasty, penectomy, phalloplasty, scrotoplasty,
urethroplasty, vaginectomy, vaginoplasty, or placement of penile or testicular prostheses), chest surgery
(mastectomy, augmentation), facial surgery, reduction thyrochondroplasty, and voice surgery. This policy
describes the procedures that are covered as part of gender affirmation surgery and the criteria that are
required for coverage.
CLINICAL GUIDELINE
Coverage guidelines for gender affirmation surgery are made in accordance with the CT Department of
Social Services (DSS) definition of Medical Necessity. The following criteria are guidelines only. Coverage
determinations are based on an assessment of the individual and their unique clinical needs. If the
guidelines conflict with the definition of Medical Necessity, the definition of Medical Necessity shall prevail.
The guidelines are as follows:
Adults
Gender affirming pelvic/gonadal, genital, and chest surgery (mastectomy/augmentation) is considered
medically necessary when all of the following criteria are met:
A. The individual verbalizes understanding of the effect of gender-affirming pelvic/gonadal and genital
surgical intervention on future reproduction or the effect of chest surgery on future lactation;
B. Gender incongruence/diversity is marked and sustained;
C. One referral letter from a treating provider*;
D. If significant medical or mental health concerns are present, documentation from the treating provider
that they do not interfere with self-identification and do not put the individual at unreasonable risk; and
E. Stable on hormonal therapy unless medically contraindicated or not desired.
*Treating provider is a health care professional with competency in assessment of transgender and gender
diverse people who have a therapeutic relationship with the individual. Examples include, but are not limited
PROVIDER POLICIES &
PROCEDURES
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
2
to, a qualified mental health professional, primary care provider, endocrinologist.
Facial feminization or masculinization surgeries may be considered reconstructive, and therefore medically
necessary, when all of the following criteria are met:
A. Gender incongruence/diversity is marked and sustained;
B. One referral letter from a treating provider**;
C. If significant medical or mental health concerns are present, documentation from the treating provider
that they do not interfere with self-identification and do not put the individual at unreasonable risk;
D. Stable on hormonal therapy unless medically contraindicated or not desired; and
E. There is no documentation or indication that the surgery or procedure is being done for any reason
other than feminization, masculinization, or non-binary transition (e.g., to improve appearance
unrelated to gender transition/affirmation, or to reverse the appearance of normal aging, or to correct
medical or surgical problems unrelated to gender transition/affirmation [however if potentially
indicated for other reasons, the surgery or procedure might be considered medically necessary
reconstructive surgery].)
Thyroid cartilage reduction (chondroplasty) may be considered reconstructive, and therefore medically
necessary, when all of the following criteria are met:
A. Gender incongruence/diversity is marked and sustained;
B. One referral letter from a treating provider**;
C. If significant medical or mental health concerns are present, documentation from the treating provider
that they do not interfere with self-identification and do not put the individual at unreasonable risk;
D. Stable on hormonal therapy unless medically contraindicated or not desired; and
E. There is no documentation or indication that the surgery or procedure is being done for any reason
other than feminization, masculinization, or non-binary transition (e.g., to improve appearance
unrelated to gender transition/affirmation, or to reverse the appearance of normal aging, or to correct
medical or surgical problems unrelated to gender transition/affirmation [however if potentially
indicated for other reasons, the surgery or procedure might be considered medically necessary
reconstructive surgery].)
Voice modification surgery may be considered reconstructive, and therefore medically necessary, when all of
the following criteria are met:
A. Gender incongruence/diversity is marked and sustained;
B. One referral letter from a treating provider**;
C. If significant medical or mental health concerns are present, documentation from the treating provider
that they do not interfere with self-identification and do not put the individual at unreasonable risk;
D. Stable on hormonal therapy unless medically contraindicated or not desired; and
E. There is documentation that voice/speech therapy was unsuccessful, and surgery is likely to provide
further benefit.
**Treating provider is a health care professional with competency in the assessment of transgender and
gender diverse people who has a therapeutic relationship with the individual. Examples include, but are not
limited to, a qualified mental health professional, primary care provider, endocrinologist.
Adolescents
Gender affirming surgery for individuals under 18 years of age will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis,
when all of the following criteria are met:
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
3
A. Documentation from the treating provider that includes all the following:
1. Gender incongruence is marked and sustained over time;
2. A statement that the individual demonstrates the emotional and cognitive maturity required to
provide informed consent/assent for the procedure(s);
3. A statement that the individual has been informed of the reproductive effects of the requested
surgical procedure(s) in the context of their stage of pubertal development;
4. An assessment of parental/guardian support;
5. An assessment of the individual’s ability to adhere to post-surgical recommendations;
B. One referral letter from a qualified mental health professional*;
C. If significant medical or mental health concerns are present, documentation from the treating provider
that they do not interfere with self-identification and do not put the individual at unreasonable risk; and
D. Unless contraindicated or not desired, has received at least 12 months of gender-affirming hormone
therapy, if required, to achieve the desired surgical result.
Phalloplasty is not covered in individuals under the age of 18 at this time given its complexity and high rates
of complications when compared to other gender-affirming treatments.
*Characteristics of a Qualified Mental Health Professional (From WPATH SOC VIII – Mental Health):
• Master’s degree or equivalent in a clinical behavioral science field granted by an institution accredited
by the appropriate national accrediting board. The professional should also have documented
credentials from the relevant licensing board or equivalent;
• Competence in using the Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders and/or the International
Classification of Disease for diagnostic purposes;
• Ability to recognize and diagnose co-existing mental health concerns and to distinguish these from
gender incongruence/diversity; and
• Knowledgeable about transgender and gender diverse individuals, and the assessment and
treatment of gender incongruence/diversity.
Hair Removal/Hairplasty
• Hair removal procedures to treat tissue donor sites for a planned phalloplasty or vaginoplasty are
considered medically necessary.
• The use of laser hair removal for facial feminization may be considered medically necessary if the
above criteria for other gender affirming surgery are met.
• Electrolysis is typically considered not medically necessary. Requests will be reviewed on a case-by-
case basis and may be covered for those individuals seeking hair removal as part of facial
feminization when there is documentation from a treating medical provider indicating why laser hair
removal is contraindicated or ineffective for the individual.
• Hair removal on other body areas (e.g., legs, arms) is considered cosmetic and not medically
necessary.
• Hairplasty/hair transplants are considered cosmetic and not medically necessary.
Surgical Revision
Surgery to refine the results of a previous surgical procedure, including breast augmentation, mastectomy,
facial feminization, and genital reconstruction may be considered medically necessary if the surgery is
needed to address a functional impairment resulting from the previous surgery. If not reconstructive in
nature, the procedure will be considered cosmetic and therefore not medically necessary.
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
4
Documentation from the medical/surgical provider describing the impairment is required.
Reversal
Reversal of a prior gender affirming surgical procedure is considered gender-affirming care. The applicable
criteria, as outlined above, for gender-affirming surgical procedures would apply.
Cosmetic Procedures
Certain ancillary procedures, including but not limited to the procedures listed below, are considered
cosmetic and not medically necessary when performed as part of surgical treatment for gender dysphoria.
Please refer to the HUSKY Health Cosmetic Surgery Policy for additional information on coverage of
cosmetic procedures.
• Body contouring
• Botulinum toxin
• Blepharoplasty
• Breast augmentation after initial augmentation mammaplasty
• Brow lift (other than when performed as part of facial feminization)
• Calf implants
• Chemical peels
• Cosmetic fillers (including collagen, hyaluronic acid injections, fat transplantation, and implants)
• Dermabrasion
• Eyelid procedures
• Face lifts or other skin tightening procedures
• Gluteal augmentation
• Laser resurfacing/use of radio waves/intense pulsed light technology
• Lip reduction/enhancement
• Lipofilling/collagen injections
• Liposuction
• Pectoral implants
EPSDT Special Provision
Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment (EPSDT) is a federal Medicaid requirement that
requires the Connecticut Medical Assistance Program (CMAP) to cover services, products, or procedures for
Medicaid enrollees under 21 years of age where the service or good is medically necessary health care to
correct or ameliorate a defect, physical or mental illness, or a condition identified through a screening
examination. The applicable definition of medical necessity is set forth in Conn. Gen. Stat. Section 17b-259b
(2011) [ref. CMAP Provider Bulletin PB 2011-36].
PROCEDURE
Prior authorization of gender affirmation surgery is required. Requests for coverage will be reviewed in
accordance with the processes in place for reviewing requests for surgical procedures. Coverage
determinations will be based upon a review of requested and/or submitted case-specific information.
The following information is needed to review requests for gender affirmation surgery:
1. Fully completed Outpatient Prior Authorization Request Form or fully completed authorization request
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
5
via on-line web portal; and
2. Documentation from the referring provider which supports the medical necessity of the requested
procedure(s), and which includes all documentation and referrals outlined in the above criteria.
EFFECTIVE DATE
This Policy is effective for prior authorization requests for gender affirmation surgery for individuals covered
under the HUSKY Health Program beginning April 2, 2015.
LIMITATIONS
N/A
DEFINITIONS
1. HUSKY A: Connecticut children and their parents or a relative caregiver; and pregnant women may
qualify for HUSKY A (also known as Medicaid). Income limits apply.
2. HUSKY B: Uninsured children under the age of 19 in higher income households may be eligible for
HUSKY B (also known as the Children’s Health Insurance Program) depending on their family
income level. Family cost-sharing may apply.
3. HUSKY C: Connecticut residents who are age 65 or older or residents who are ages 18-64 and who
are blind, or have another disability, may qualify for Medicaid coverage under HUSKY C (this includes
Medicaid for Employees with Disabilities (MED-Connect), if working). Income and asset limits apply.
4. HUSKY D: Connecticut residents who are ages 19-64 without dependent children and who: (1) do not
qualify for HUSKY A; (2) do not receive Medicare; and (3) are not pregnant, may qualify for HUSKY D
(also known as Medicaid for the Lowest-Income populations).
5. HUSKY Health Program: The HUSKY A, HUSKY B, HUSKY C, HUSKY D and HUSKY Limited
Benefit programs, collectively.
6. HUSKY Limited Benefit Program or HUSKY, LBP: Connecticut’s implementation of limited health
insurance coverage under Medicaid for individuals with tuberculosis or for family planning purposes
and such coverage is substantially less than the full Medicaid coverage.
7. Medically Necessary or Medical Necessity: (as defined in Connecticut General Statutes § 17b-
259b) Those health services required to prevent, identify, diagnose, treat, rehabilitate or ameliorate
an individual's medical condition, including mental illness, or its effects, in order to attain or maintain
the individual's achievable health and independent functioning provided such services are: (1)
Consistent with generally-accepted standards of medical practice that are defined as standards that
are based on (A) credible scientific evidence published in peer-reviewed medical literature that is
generally recognized by the relevant medical community, (B)recommendations of a physician-
specialty society, (C) the views of physicians practicing in relevant clinical areas, and (D) any other
relevant factors; (2) clinically appropriate in terms of type, frequency, timing, site, extent and duration
and considered effective for the individual's illness, injury or disease; (3) not primarily for the
convenience of the individual, the individual's health care provider or other health care providers; (4)
not more costly than an alternative service or sequence of services at least as likely to produce
equivalent therapeutic or diagnostic results as to the diagnosis or treatment of the individual's illness,
injury or disease; and (5) based on an assessment of the individual and his or her medical condition.
8. Prior Authorization: A process for approving covered services prior to the delivery of the service or
initiation of the plan of care based on a determination by CHNCT as to whether the requested service
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
6
is medically necessary.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES AND REFERENCES:
• World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). Standards of care for the health of
transgender and gender diverse people. 8th version. 2022. Available at:
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/26895269.2022.2100644 Accessed on October 23,
2022.
PUBLICATION HISTORY
Status Date Action Taken
Original Publication April 2, 2015 Approved by DSS on April 2, 2015.
Reviewed June 2015 Clinical Quality Subcommittee Review. Clarified language in
Clinical Guideline section concerning need for hormone therapy.
Updated reference for AMA CPT Manual to most current version.
Updated March 2016 Updates to language in introductory paragraph pertaining to
purpose of policy. Updates to Clinical Guideline section
pertaining to definition of Medical Necessity. Updates throughout
policy to reflect importance of person-centeredness when
reviewing requests for these procedures.
Added the following criteria:
• Mastectomy/creation of male chest as part of male to
female reassignment
• Breast augmentation as part of male to female
reassignment
• Genital hair removal as part of male to female
Reassignment
• Use of hormone therapy in adolescents
Updated section related to additional procedures related to
gender reassignment. Removed code list. Changes approved
by Clinical Quality Subcommittee on March 21, 2016. Changes
approved by DSS on April 22, 2016.
Updated Nov 2016 Update to further define the necessary qualifications of mental
health professionals submitting referrals for gender
reassignment surgery. Change approved at the November 9,
2016 CHNCT Medical Policy Committee meeting. Change
approved at the December 20, 2017 CHNCT Clinical Quality
Subcommittee meeting. Approved by DSS on January 3, 2017.
Updated April 2017 Added criteria for facial feminization procedures. Removed list of
procedures that require case-by-case review. Changes approved
by DSS on March 31, 2017. Changes approved by CHNCT
Medical Policy Review Committee on April 26, 2017. Changes
approved by Clinical Quality Subcommittee on June 19, 2017.
Updated April 2018 Medical Policy Committee review. Reference update. Approved
by CHNCT Medical Policy Review Committee on February 14,
2018. Approved by CHNCT Clinical Quality Subcommittee on
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
7
March 19, 2018. Approved by DSS on April 5, 2018.
Updated July 2018 Update to change gender reassignment surgery to gender
affirmation surgery. Change approved by DSS on July 17,
2018.
Updated November 2018 Update to Clinical Guideline section that referrals should be
based on person-centered assessment of individual. Update to
Clinical Guideline section under Facial Feminization to include
statement that letter from qualified mental health professional
“should be specific to the individual’s unique experiences.”
Formatting changes – moved language reqarding letter/referral
requirements/qualifications of mental health professional.
Change approved at the November 14, 2018 CHNCT Medical
Policy Review Committee meeting. Approved by the CHNCT
Clinical Quality Subcommittee on December 17, 2018. Approved
by DSS on January 28, 2019.
Updated February 2019 Added Surgical Revision to Clinical Guideline section:
Surgical Revision
Surgery to refine the results of a previous surgical procedure,
including breast augmentation, mastectomy, facial feminization
and genital reconstruction may be considered medically
necessary if the surgery is needed to address a functional
impairment resulting from the previous surgery.
Documentation from the medical/surgical provider describing the
impairment is required.
Change approved at the February 27, 2019 Medical Reviewer
Meeting.
• Added need for hormone therapy prior to facial
feminization procedures to the Clinical Guideline section.
• Added section on procedures to address aging skin to the
Clinical Guideline section.
Changes approved at the March 13, 2019 Medical Reviewer
Meeting.
Changes approved by the CHNCT Clinical Quality Subcommittee
on March 18, 2019.
Approved by DSS on March 27, 2019.
Updated August 2020 Updated reference for AMA CPT Manual to current year’s
version. Change approved at the August 12, 2020Medical
Reviewer Meeting. Change approved by the CHNCT Clinical
Quality Subcommittee on September 21, 2020.Approved by DSS
on October 7, 2020.
Reviewed September 2021 Reviewed and approved without changes at the September 8,
2021 CHNCT Medical Reviewer meeting. Reviewed and
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
8
approved without changes by the CHNCT Clinical Quality
Subcommittee on September 20, 2021. Approved by DSS
on September 30, 2021.
Updated March 2022 Updates to Clinical Guideline section:
• Surgery limited to individuals 18 years of age and older
• Need for medical and psychological evaluations to
determine capacity to make decision to proceed with
surgery and to attest that any mental health or
substance use conditions are stable and being treated
• Need for two evaluations from mental health
professionals, the most recent within 6 months of
request
• Added statement to facial feminization criteria “E.
Documentation on how the individual’s current facial
features vary from the experienced gender, how the
variation impacts the individual’s current level of function,
and how the procedure(s) will directly address the
variation (note: each procedure requested should be
considered separately as some procedures may be
cosmetic and others may be reconstructive)”
• Added criteria for reversal for individuals seeking to
detransition/retransition
• Added criteria for cosmetic procedures
• Removed criteria for hormone therapy
Changes approved at the March 9, 2022 CHNCT Medical
Reviewer meeting. Approved by the CHNCT Clinical Quality
Subcommittee on March 21, 2022. Approved by DSS on March
24, 2022.
Updated May 2022 Correction to Limitations section. Removed statement that
gender affirming services are not covered for HUSKY B
members. Update approved by DSS on May 26, 2022.
Updated August 2022 Updates to Clinical Guideline section. Letter requirement
changed from two letters to one letter (from behavioral health
clinicians) for chest surgeries and facial feminization procedures.
Updated qualifications for behavioral health clinicians to mirror
requirements outlined in the most current, published WPATH
Standards of Care. Word “irreversible” removed throughout
policy. Added APRNs to providers able to prescribe hormonal
therapy. Updates to Additional Resources and References section.
Changes approved by the CHNCT Clinical Quality Subcommittee
on August 2, 2022. Changes approved by DSS on August 2,
2022.
Updated January 2023 Update to Clinical Guideline section to align with WPATH SOC
Version 8. Changes approved at the December 14, 2022
CHNCT Medical Reviewer meeting. Changes approved by the
CHNCT Clinical Quality Subcommittee on December 19, 2022.
Approved by DSS on December 22, 2022.
Please note that authorization is based on medical necessity at the time the authorization is issued and is not a guarantee of
payment. Payment is based on the individual having active coverage, benefits and policies in effect at the time of service.
To determine if a service or procedure requires prior authorization, CMAP Providers may refer to the Benefit and Authorization Grids summaries
on www.ct.gov/husky by clicking on “For Providers” followed by “Benefit Grids”. For a definitive list of benefits and service limitations, CMAP
Providers may access the CMAP provider fee schedules and regulations at www.ctdssmap.com.
9
Updated September 2023 Updates to introductory paragraphs to better describe the
experience of transgender and gender nonconforming
individuals. Update to Clinical Guideline section to clarify
requirements regarding pre-surgical education about future
reproduction and lactation. Updated coverage of revisional
surgeries – revisional surgeries for individuals looking to
reverse a previous procedure will be considered gender
affirming care and criteria for gender affirming surgeries would
apply to these procedures. Changes approved at the August
9, 2023 CHNCT Medical Reviewer meeting. Changes approved
by the CHNCT Clinical Quality Subcommittee on September 18,
2023. Approved by DSS on October 2, 2023.
Updated September 2024 Clinical Guideline section updated to define treating provider.
Criteria for other gender affirming surgeries updated to clarify
documentation requirements. List of other gender affirming
surgeries updated. Criteria for hair removal/hairplasty added.
Section addressing gender affirming surgical procedures
considered not medically necessary or cosmetic removed.
Changes approved at the September 11, 2024 CHNCT Medical
Reviewer meeting. Changes approved by the CHNCT Clinical
Quality Subcommittee on September 16, 2024. Approved by
DSS on September 27, 2024.
Updated August 2025 Clinical Guideline section updated to clarify “other gender
affirming surgeries” and outline criteria for facial
feminization/masculinization surgeries, thyroid cartilage
reduction surgery, and voice modification surgery. List for “other
gender affirming surgeries” moved to a new section for Cosmetic
Procedures. Criteria language for adolescents updated to align
and be consistent with criteria language for adults, in regard to
medical or mental health concerns. Section for “Cosmetic
Procedures for Aging Skin” removed with the list of procedures
moved to the new “Cosmetic Procedures” section. Changes
approved at the August 27, 2025 CHNCT Medical Reviewer
meeting. Changes approved by the CHNCT Clinical Quality
Subcommittee on September 16, 2025. Approved by DSS
on September 23, 2025.