Medical, Oral Health, and Behavioral Health Services
HIV Prevention & Care​
Diverse Solutions for HIV Prevention & Care
Affinia Healthcare is committed to reducing new HIV infections in the U.S. by 75 percent by 2025, and a staggering 90 percent by 2030. Our experienced team is here to talk with you privately and confidentially about HIV.
Your health is our priority.
How to Prevent HIV
1. Practice Safe Sex : Consistently using condoms during sexual intercourse can greatly reduce the risk of HIV transmission.
2. Get Tested – know your status: Regular HIV testing helps you know your status and seek timely medical care if needed, preventing the spread of the virus to others.
3. Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP): Taking PrEP medication daily can significantly lower your risk of contracting HIV, especially if you&#8217;re in a high-risk group.
4. Avoid Sharing Needles: If you inject drugs, always use sterile needles and never share them with others to prevent both HIV and other infections.
CDC - Consumer Information Sheet
HIV Testing at Affinia Healthcare
CDC recommends that everyone between 13 and 65 years old should get at least one HIV test during their lifetime, independently of their risk. People at high risk of acquiring HIV should test more often.
At Affinia Healthcare HIV testing is free, confidential and available for everyone. We offer rapid HIV testing that takes about 20 minutes and is 99.7 percent accurate.
HIV Care Contact Form
Test for HIV at Home
Your privacy matters. That&#8217;s why we offer an at-home HIV testing kit that allows you to test safely and privately.
Why test for HIV at home:
1. Ease of Use: Simple instructions with reliable results.
2. Complete Confidentiality: Your results, your privacy protected.
3. Accessible Health Management: Order online or pick up at our health center.
Knowing your HIV status is a key part of health maintenance. Order your testing kit today and take the first step toward informed health.
To order an at-home HIV test, please scan the QR code.
HIV Care Referrals
Affinia Healthcare has HIV patient navigators who can help you schedule an appointment, provide helpful resources, and coordinate your care.
For more information, please reach out to one of our patient navigators:
Latrice Commons, HIV Patient Navigator
Phone: (314) 399-1331
Email: lcommons@affiniahealthcare.org
Is PrEP right for you?
Taking proactive steps in health care has never been easier. With our Rapid Start PrEP Program, you can begin your preventative care journey swiftly and smoothly. Here are some benefits of PrEP:
• Fast-track Consultations : No long waits, get started immediately.
• Personalized Care : Tailored advice that aligns with your health goals.
• Continuous Support : Our team is here to guide you every step of the way.
PrEP can help protect you if you DON’T have HIV and ANY of the following applies to you:
1. You have had anal or vaginal sex in the past 6 months and:
• have a sexual partner with HIV (especially if the partner has an unknown or detectable viral load)
• have not consistently used a condom, or
• have been diagnosed with an STD in the past 6 months
2. You inject drugs and:
• have an injection partner with HIV, or
• share needles, syringes, or other drug injection equipment (for example, cookers)
Ready to start? Contact us today to schedule your initial consultation and learn more about how PrEP can be part of your health routine.
HIV Care Contact Form
Remember – PrEP prevents HIV infection but not other sexually transmitted infections.
HIV Care Contact Form
Complete the form below and a member of the Affinia Healthcare HIV Team will contact you to provide additional information or to help you set up an appointment.
First Name (Required)
Last Name (Required)
Your Phone Number (Required)
Date of Birth
Your Email Address
Are you currently an Affinia Healthcare patient?
NO
YES
Do you need information or assistance with any of the following:
HIV testing STI testing Condoms PrEP Other
Do you have any other questions or need information on items not covered above?
How did you hear about us?
Social media (e.g., Facebook, Instagram, etc.) TV ad Bus ad Flyer Community event Friend or associate Other
Submit Form
All Services
Community Health Services
Ancillary Services
Medical, Oral Health, and Behavioral Health Services
Make an Appointment
Call Affinia Healthcare today to make an appointment.
314-814-8700
Our Locations
We provide trusted health services through highly qualified and dedicated professionals. Find the Affinia Healthcare location near you.
Learn About the Affinia Healthcare Development Team
See The Latest News From Affinia Healthcare