Skip to content
Access To Care
TGD individuals face many barriers in accessing gender-affirming providers and services resulting in significant health and healthcare disparities. The mission of our Access To Care (AtC) program mirrors that of our organization. To reduce healthcare disparity related to barriers to accessing competent care.
Reducing Barriers
We aim to reduce these disparities by reducing finacial barriers and increasing the number of competent providers of gender transition care. We are working to fund the provision of financial assistance to transgender and gender diverse (TGD) members of our community for gender-affirming healthcare. Barriers are highest for those community members who hold multiple marginalized identifiers so we try to assist these individuals in particular &#8211; trying to focus our support on those who are most in need. Some healthcare services that are funded through our program include mental health care, care management, medical care, prescription refills, and surgical care.
To learn more about our current Access to Care program, PATH, click here .
Increasing Trans Healthcare Competency of Providers
Increasing trans-specialized clinical competency of healthcare providers is an integral component of our PATH program. Most medical and graduate level training programs still offer limited courses and time devoted to educating providers in gender-affirming care and the TGD community. Lack of education, systemic transphobia in health care systems, state and federal policy, and cultural ignorance of providers and staff further contribute to health and healthcare disparities for TGD individuals.
Our aim is to bring education to more providers, staff, and healthcare organizations to reduce barriers to seeking preventative, general, specialized, and gender-affirming healthcare. We provide live and virtual training to healthcare providers and organizations throughout the area. This will increase the competence of providers currently offering gender-affirming care and support providers new to gender care in expanding to offer those services.
To request a training for your organization, complete our Speaker and Presentation Request Form or contact us .
Results
The program began in 2020 when Charlotte Trans Health became a 501(c)3 non-profit organization.
2020-21
Grant funding supported 31 TGD individuals to obtain case management, mental health care, and prescription refills for hormone therapy.
2022
Development of CTH Educational
and Training Program.
2023
Awarded ARPA grant from Mecklenburg County to fund free case management, medical care, and mental health services. Click here to learn more about the current program.
With donations and grants, PATH will continue to grow and support those most in need. Together, we can compassionately empower TGD individuals to get the healthcare they need and deserve.