Information about the Wisconsin
Driver License (DL) Application (form MV3001)
You will need to visit a DMV service center and present an MV3001 application when you:
• apply for an original or duplicate* driver license or instruction permit
• renew an existing driver license
• apply for an occupational license
An application may only be submitted through the mail if you are unable to renew or obtain a
duplicate driver license because you are a Wisconsin resident who is temporarily out-of-state.
More information about:
• renewing when out of state
• fees
• applying for a license
* Note: You may be eligible to order a duplicate driver license online rather than visit a DMV service
center. See our online duplicate driver license application for further information.
Acceptable proof of name and date of birth, legal presence, identity and Wisconsin residency are required. Please see DOT publication
BDS316 or wisconsindmv.gov/dl-docs for a list of acceptable documents.
 ALL applicants, complete the top section on back.
If under age 18, also complete the ‘UNDER AGE 18’ section below.
 CDL applicants, complete the ‘CDL APPLICANT ONLY’ section below.
Your Federal Medical Certificate is required unless you drive a school bus
or drive for a political subdivision.
DONOR Check the box if you wish to help others by donating your organs,
tissue and eyes upon your death. Your gift will be used to save and improve
lives through transplantation, therapy, research or education. If you are at
least 18, checking the box indicates your legal consent for donation. You do
not have to answer this question to obtain a license.
ADA The Wisconsin Department of Transportation complies with the Ameri-
cans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
INVISIBLE DISABILITY Notice to law enforcement form:
wisconsindmv.gov/inv-dis or at DMV Service Centers.
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER (SSN) If you have a SSN, you must provide
it (s. 343.14(2)(bm) Wis. Stats.). Your SSN may be used for purposes
authorized by law and to link your driver license and vehicle registration
records. Your SSN must correspond with the number issued by the Social
Security Administration. Federal regulation 49 CFR, Part 383.153 requires a
SSN for commercial driver license privileges.
NOTICE TO MALES AGE 18–25 By submitting this application, you
consent to be registered with the Selective Service System, if required
by Federal law. You also authorize the Department of Transportation to
forward any information contained in this application that is requested by the
Selective Service System for the purpose of registering you as provided in s.
343.14(2)(em) and s. 343.234 Wis. Stats.
WARNING Any applicant for a driver license who presents fraudulent
or altered documents or makes a false statement to the issuing officer or
agency, may be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for
not more than six months or both. The driver license privilege may also be
revoked for one year. (s. 343.14(5) Wis. Stats.)
OPT OUT Under Wisconsin open records laws, WisDOT must provide
information from its records to requesters. If you do not want your name and
address included in requests we receive for ten or more records, you may ask
WisDOT to withhold your name and address from those lists by checking the
box on the application.
INSURANCE No person may operate a motor vehicle in Wisconsin unless
the owner or driver of the vehicle has liability insurance in effect for the
vehicle being operated and carries proof of insurance whenever driving.
Failure to have insurance could result in a fine up to $500. Refer to s. 344.61-
344.65 Wis. Stats. for full details.
COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE APPLICANT ONLY
If applying for a HAZMAT endorsement (HME), complete Driver License Hazardous Materials Endorsement Application, form MV3735.
If applying for a school bus endorsement, complete School Bus or Alternative Vehicle License Information Request, form MV3740.
6. Is the vehicle you will be operating equipped YES NO
with air brakes? 
YES NO
 

7. Do you meet all the driver qualifications as required
by 49 CFR 391 to operate a commercial vehicle?
If not, see Motor Carrier Safety FAQs in the Wisconsin
Commercial Driver’s Manual.
8. School Bus, CDL Instructional Permit and YES NO
New CDL Class/Endorsement Applicants Only.  
Is the vehicle in which you will take the commercial
driver license skills test representative of the type
of vehicle you will operate or intend to operate?
9. School Bus Applicants Only. YES NO
Have you been convicted of an offense identified  
on School Bus or Alternative Vehicle License
Information Request, form MV3740 in Wisconsin
or any other jurisdiction? If yes, list date and place:
1. In the past 5 years, have you had a loss of YES NO
consciousness or muscle control caused by a  
neurological condition, for example, seizure disorder?
2. In the past 2 years, have you taken insulin YES NO
to control a diabetic condition?  
3. In the past 2 years, have you taken oral YES NO
medication to control a diabetic condition?  
4. Is your hearing impaired? (hard of hearing) YES NO
 
5. Have you held a valid operator's license in the YES NO
last 10 years from any jurisdiction (state) other  
than Wisconsin?
If yes, list all states:
DRIVER LICENSE APPLICANT UNDER AGE 18 ONLY
Applicant Certification: I certify that in the past six months I have not
been ticketed for a moving violation that has or may result in a conviction.
I understand that falsifying this statement will result in the cancellation of
my probationary license. Applicant Signature – REQUIRED.
Sponsor Certification: As the adult sponsor under s. 343.15 Wis. Stats.,
I accept liability and verify that the minor is not a habitual truant and meets the
educational requirements for licensure. If required for this application, I certify
that the applicant has accumulated at least 50 hours of driving experience,
10 of which were at night.
X
Minor Name – Print
School Certification: I certify that this applicant is enrolled in
approved behind-the-wheel training.
Sponsor Name – Print Relationship to Applicant
School ID Number School Name Sponsor Wisconsin DL/ID Number Sex Birth Date (mm/dd/yyyy)
X
Official WisDOT Test Results (line out if not used) (Sponsor Signature – Must be Witnessed by DMV Agent or Notarized)
Knowledge Test Highway Sign Test State of Wisconsin County of Subscribed and sworn to before me on this date
Pass  Fail  Pass  Fail 
X X
(Authorized School Official/Instructor Signature) (DMV Authorized Agent or Notary Signature) (My Commission Expires)
DO NOT Use Notary Seal
WISCONSIN DRIVER LICENSE (DL) APPLICATION
Wisconsin Department of Transportation
MV3001 8/2025 Ch. 343 Wis. Stats.
An unexpired Wisconsin
driver license is acceptable
photo ID for voting.
(s. 5.02(6m) Wis. Stats.)
ALL APPLICANTS – Please Print
Social Security Number Applicant Name – First, Middle, Last Birth Date (mm/dd/yyyy)
Residence Address – Street Apt # City State ZIP Code
Mailing Address – ONLY IF DIFFERENT from Residence Apt # City State ZIP Code
Sex Race Eyes Hair Weight Height
Former Name (if changed since last license or ID card) Reason for Name Change
Marriage  Divorce  Other  List:
WISCONSIN DRIVER LICENSE (DL) APPLICATION
Wisconsin Department of Transportation MV3001 8/2025 Ch. 343 Wis. Stats.
I understand that I must surrender for cancellation any driver license or identification card previously issued by another state before I may be issued a
driver license or identification card in the State of Wisconsin. The State of Wisconsin will notify the other state that my driver license or identification card is
surrendered and cancelled, and that I have been issued a Wisconsin license or identification card. (ss. 343.11(1) and (2), and 343.50(1)(b) Wis. Stats.) I certify
that the information on this application is true under penalty of perjury and I am a resident of Wisconsin. (s. 343.14(5) Wis. Stats.)
X (Applicant Signature) (Date)
An unexpired Wisconsin
driver license is acceptable
photo ID for voting.
(s. 5.02(6m) Wis. Stats.)
VISION  Check if vision section completed by DMV Examiner
Visual Acuity Without RX With RX
Temporal Field of
Vision In Degrees
Being duly licensed to practice
 Optometry  Medicine, in:  Wisconsin, or  Other
Right Eye 20/ 20/
Name of State or Country
Left Eye 20/ 20/
I certify that the findings are correct
and I examined this applicant on: (Exam Date)
Corrective lenses required while driving
 YES  NO
Color Perception
 Normal  Deficient
XProgressive eye disease or cataracts
 YES  NO
If Yes, to Progressive eye disease or cataracts
 One Eye  Both Eyes (Eye Examiner Signature) (License #)
1. Do you wish to register to be an organ, tissue and eye donor? YES  7. Will you donate $2 to organ, tissue and eye donation efforts? YES 
2. OPT OUT – Do you wish to have your name and address YES 
withheld from lists WisDOT sells?
8. Do you need glasses or contact lenses for driving? YES NO
 
3. I am a veteran registered with WDVA and wish to have my YES 
veteran status indicated on my driver license. (DMV is
required to verify your status with WDVA)
9. Do you have any physical limitations which interfere with YES NO
your ability to perform the normal tasks associated with  
operating a motor vehicle?
4. Has your license, ID card or operating privilege ever been YES NO
revoked, suspended, cancelled, disqualified or denied?  
If yes, list date and place:
If yes, have you successfully passed a road test with this YES NO
condition?  
10. In the past year have you had a loss of consciousness or YES NO
muscle control caused by any of the following conditions?  
If yes, check condition(s) and list date(s):
5. Have you been convicted of operating while intoxicated YES NO
OUTSIDE of Wisconsin?  
If yes, give date and place: Traumatic Brain or Muscle or Seizure
Head Injury (2)  Nerve (2)  Disorder (4)  Heart (6) 
Stroke (2)  Mental (3)  Diabetes (5)  Lung (7) 
6. Do you hold a valid driver license/identification card from YES NO
another state/country?  
If yes, list:
Years of licensed driving experience in the United States, its
territories and Canada. List:
11. Check ONLY ONE of the following three boxes.
I certify that I am a:
 U.S. Citizen  Temporary Visitor
 Permanent or Conditional Permanent Resident
OFFICE USE ONLY Reason for Reissue:
Date Processor ID
 REAL ID
Product Type
 REGI  CLP  CYCI  SPRI  JUVI  MPDI
 PROB  RGLR  OCCL  SPRR  JUVP  NON
Wisconsin or Out-of-State License Number State Expiration Date
Hearing (CDL Only) Examiner ID Application Type
 ORG  RNW  DUP  REI  RSM  AMD  COA
Skill Test Score Highway Signs Knowledge Class(es) Issued
 A  B  C  D  M
Endorsements
 H  N  P  S  T  F
Payment
 Check  Cash  CC  Acct.
Amount
$(Processor Signature) (Processor ID)
For more information visit:
Would you like to provide emergency contact information for law enforcement? YES □ NO □ wisconsindmv.gov/emergencycontact