Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Oklahoma Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes . Publication in a local newspaper and a hearing are both required.
Name Change (Minor): Yes . Publication in a local newspaper and a hearing are both required. Notice to the non-filing parent is required.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes . Requires a certified copy of a court order for change of name to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): No . Oklahoma Department of Health is no longer issuing gender marker amendments on birth certificates.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes . Requires a certified copy of a court order for change of name to make this change.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): No . Oklahoma Department of Public Safety is no longer issuing gender marker changes on DL/IDs.
Restrictions Based on Prior Criminal Convictions : Yes . People on the sex offender registry are unable to petition for a name change.
Oklahoma Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Oklahoma , you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the district court. You can find the court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Please note if you are on the sex offender registry, you are unable to petition to change your name.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name.
To make this request you need to be a resident of the county in which you are filing for at least 30 days.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
Petition for Change of Name
Notice of Hearing on Petition to Change Name
Order for Name Change
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Pauper’s Affidavit .
Step 3: Publication Requirement
Oklahoma has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be published in a newspaper at least 10 days before your hearing date. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
You will need to give Notice of Hearing on Petition to Change Name to a newspaper of general circulation in your county. You are only required to publish notice of your name once. When publication has been complete the newspaper will typically provide proof of publication, which you should bring with you to your hearing.
If notice of your name change is not posted 10 days before your hearing date, the judge will reschedule your hearing.
If publication poses a personal safety concern, the court may waive the requirement with good cause. If you are a victim of domestic abuse, you may be eligible to seal your case. If you would like the court proceedings to be confidential, you may wish to seek legal assistance to seal the case and waive publication.
Step 4: Attend Hearing & Issuance of Final Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend. You will want to request that your hearing be scheduled 15-21 days after your filing date to give yourself enough time to complete the publication requirement.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
If the judge approves the request, they will sign the Order for Name Change and you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Oklahoma Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. A petition is a formal written application to a court requesting judicial action—in this case, your name change! These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the district court. You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, your petitioning guardian must complete the Petition for Change of Name.
You will need to request the required local forms from your county court clerk. Make sure that the name change forms are for a minor name change, not an adult name change.
To make this request you need to be a resident of the county in which you are filing for at least 30 days.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
You will need to request the required local forms from your county court clerk. You will need:
Petition for Change of Name
Notice of Hearing on Petition to Change Name
Order for Name Change
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Pauper’s Affidavit .
Step 3: Publication Requirement
Oklahoma has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be published in a newspaper at least 10 days before your hearing date. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
You will need to give Notice of Hearing on Petition to Change Name to a newspaper of general circulation in your county. You are only required to publish notice of your name once. When publication has been complete the newspaper will typically provide proof of publication, which you should bring with you to your hearing.
If notice of your name change is not posted 10 days before your hearing date, the judge will reschedule your hearing.
If publication poses a personal safety concern, the court may waive the requirement with good cause. If you are a victim of domestic abuse, you may be eligible to seal your case. If you would like the court proceedings to be confidential, you may wish to seek legal assistance to seal the case and waive publication.
Step 4: Obtain Parental Consent
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary, and you can proceed to the next step.
If a known legal parent does not consent to the requested name change, they will still need to be notified through the service process. This is typically done through personal service (in-person delivery) or certified mail. They are typically served with a copy of the name change petition and notice of hearing. If you are not able to locate the parent, please contact your local court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation and requirements for your county.
If a parent does not consent to the name change, the judge will consider the parent’s opposition and the best interest of the child. You may want to consult with a lawyer if you expect the non-petitioning parent to oppose the request. See below for more information on helpful documentation of the child’s best interest.
Step 5: Attend Hearing & Issuance of Final Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you and your petitioning guardian will be required to attend. You will want to request that your hearing be scheduled 15-21 days after your filing date to give yourself enough time to complete the publication requirement.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the judge approves the request, they will sign the Order for Name Change, and you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Oklahoma Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Oklahoma Department of Health will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments and completion of an Administrative Hearing. The amended birth certificate will be marked as “amended” and the original certificate will not be sealed.
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Birth Certificate Request Form
A certified copy of a court order for change of name
A valid form of photo ID
The $40.00 amendment fee, which includes one certified copy of the certificate. There is a fee for additional copies.
It will take approximately 7-10 days to process your amendment request.
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Oklahoma , you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Oklahoma Vital Records Office.
Mailing address:
Vital Records
Oklahoma State Department of Health
PO BOX 53551
Oklahoma City, OK 73152-3551
If you are no longer an Oklahoma resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Oklahoma, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Oklahoma Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Oklahoma, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records Office.
Phone: (405) 426-8880
Email: AskVR@health.ok.gov
The Oklahoma Department of Health is no longer issuing gender marker amendments on birth certificates ( OK HB1688 ). If you are facing an issue with a previously amended birth certificate being revoked, please let us know by email at ncp@transequality.org .
Oklahoma Driver’s License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on an Oklahoma driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with a Licensed Operator or Licensing Office. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to notify the Department of Public Safety of your name change within 10 days of your court order being issued.
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Oklahoma residency
The $25.00 licensing fee
A list of acceptable documents is available here .
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact Service Oklahoma at (405) 522-7000.
Currently, the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety is no longer issuing gender marker changes to driver's licenses and state IDs under Governor Stitt’s Executive Order 2023-20.
ACLU Oklahoma provides answers to frequently asked questions regarding the executive order and its effect on trans and gender diverse Oklahomans.
If you changed your gender marker before the executive order, it is unclear if your corrected gender marker will transfer over when renewing or replacing your DL/ID. If you are facing revocation of a driver’s license with a previously amended gender marker, please let us know via email at ncp@transequality.org
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Oklahomans for Equality —hosts a free name change clinic the second Wednesday of every month from 5:30-7:30 pm. No appointment is necessary. The clinic is held at the Dennis R. Neill Equality Center, 621 E 4th ST, Tulsa, OK 74120.
Phone: (918) 743-4297
Freedom Oklahoma —offers a pro se name change clinic to help guide trans and gender diverse folks through the process. Check their website for the next clinic date or schedule a one-on-one consultation. Financial assistance for completing the name change process is also available.
Email: namechange@freedomoklahoma.org
Phone: ‪(405) 237-5983
Trans Advocacy Coalition of Oklahoma —a grassroots organization seeking to empower and advocate for trans and gender diverse Oklahomans. They have compiled in-depth community resources including mutual aid and direct assistance.
Email: transadvocacyok@gmail.com
Alyssa J. Bryant, Esq—trans-competent attorney with experience representing transgender minors and their parents. She offers free consultations. Her office is located at 7122 S. Sheridan Rd., #2-261, Tulsa, OK 74133.
Email: Alyssa@BryantLawTulsa.com
Phone: (918) 600-4064
Oklahoma Citations
Right to petition for change of name— 12 OK Stat § 1631-1637
Additions and amendments to birth certificates and records— OK Admin Code 310:105-3-3
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe