(410 ILCS 535/17) (from Ch. 111 1/2, par. 73-17)
Sec. 17. (1) For a person born in this State, the State Registrar of Vital
Records shall establish a new certificate of birth when he receives any of
the following:
(a) A certificate of adoption as provided in Section 16 or a certified copy of the order
of adoption together with the information necessary to identify the original certificate of birth and to establish the new certificate of birth; except that a new certificate of birth shall not be established if so requested by the court ordering the adoption, the adoptive parents, or the adopted person.
(b) A certificate of adoption or a certified copy of the order of adoption entered in a
court of competent jurisdiction of any other state or country declaring adopted a child born in the State of Illinois, together with the information necessary to identify the original certificate of birth and to establish the new certificate of birth; except that a new certificate of birth shall not be established if so requested by the court ordering the adoption, the adoptive parents, or the adopted person.
(c) A request that a new certificate be established and such evidence as required by
regulation proving that such person has been legitimatized, or that the circuit court, the Department of Healthcare and Family Services (formerly Illinois Department of Public Aid), or a court or administrative agency of any other state has established the paternity of such a person by judicial or administrative processes or by voluntary acknowledgment, which is accompanied by the social security numbers of all persons determined and presumed to be the parents.
(d) (Blank).
(e) A statement signed by the person in which the person attests to making the request
for the purpose of affirming the person's gender identity or intersex condition and that the sex designation on the person's certificate of birth should therefore be changed to a male, female, or X designation.
Each request for a new certificate of birth shall be accompanied by a fee
of $15 and entitles the applicant to one certification or certified copy
of the new certificate. If the request is for additional copies, it shall
be accompanied by a fee of $2 for each additional certification or certified
copy. The fee for a new certificate of birth shall not be required from a person (1) upon release on parole, mandatory supervised release, final discharge, or pardon from the Department of Corrections if the person presents a prescribed verification form completed by the Department of Corrections verifying the released person's date of birth and social security number, or (2) placed on aftercare release under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, upon release on parole, mandatory supervised release, final discharge, or pardon from the Department of Juvenile Justice if the person presents a prescribed verification form completed by the Department of Juvenile Justice verifying the person's date of birth and social security number. However, the person is entitled to only one new certificate of birth fee waiver.
(2) When a new certificate of birth is established, the actual place and
date of birth shall be shown; provided, in the case of adoption of a person
born in this State by parents who were residents of this State at the time
of the birth of the adopted person, the place of birth may be shown as the
place of residence of the adoptive parents at the time of such person's
birth, if specifically requested by them, and any new certificate of birth
established prior to the effective date of this amendatory Act may be
corrected accordingly if so requested by the adoptive parents or the
adopted person when of legal age. The social security numbers of the
parents shall not be recorded on the certificate of birth. The social
security numbers may only be used for purposes allowed under federal law.
The new certificate shall be substituted for the original certificate of birth:
(a) Thereafter, the original certificate and the evidence of paternity, legitimation, or
change of sex designation shall not be subject to inspection or certification except upon order of the circuit court, request of the person named on the certificate of birth, or as provided by regulation. If the new certificate was issued subsequent to an adoption, then the evidence of adoption is not subject to inspection or certification except upon order of the circuit court or as provided by rule, and the original certificate shall not be subject to inspection until the adopted person has reached the age of 21; thereafter, the original certificate shall be made available as provided by Section 18.1b of the Adoption Act, and nothing in this subsection shall impede or prohibit access to the original birth certificate under Section 18.1b of the Adoption Act.
(b) Upon receipt of notice of annulment of adoption, the original certificate of birth
shall be restored to its place in the files, and the new certificate and evidence shall not be subject to inspection or certification except upon order of the circuit court.
(3) If no certificate of birth is on file for the person for whom a new
certificate is to be established under this Section, a delayed record of
birth shall be filed with the State Registrar of Vital Records as provided
in Section 14 or Section 15 of this Act before a new certificate of birth
is established, except that when the date and place of birth and parentage
have been established in the adoption proceedings, a delayed record shall
not be required.
(4) When a new certificate of birth is established by the State
Registrar of Vital Records, all copies of the original certificate of birth
in the custody of any custodian of permanent local records in this State
shall be transmitted to the State Registrar of Vital Records as directed,
and shall be sealed from inspection except as provided by Section 18.1b of the Adoption Act.
(5) Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prohibit the amendment
of a birth certificate in accordance with subsection (6) of Section 22.
(Source: P.A. 102-1141, eff. 7-1-23.)