Skip to content
TIES Equitable Empowerment Planning Committee
As Equality Virginia gears up for the 2024 Transgender Information and Empowerment Summit (TIES), we are proud to introduce you to the remarkable individuals who make up our Equitable Empowerment Planning Committee (EEPC). This dedicated group has been working since January 2024 to ensure that our event not only fosters inclusivity, accessibility, and representation, but also champions the diverse voices and experiences within the transgender community. Each member brings unique perspectives and expertise to the table. Their dedication and passion for trans justice makes these shared decision makers an integral part of building an accessible and equitable event.
Tarena Williams (she/her)
Tarena D. Williams is a “transwoman” of color from Norfolk, Virginia. She has overcome numerous obstacles, including a near-fatal act of violence, and now advocates for the transgender community, speaking out for those of us who do not have a voice. Tarena established the Southeastern Transgender Resource Center in July 2018 and founded Lamia’s house, a trans transitional house, in January 2022.
Charley Burton (he/him)
Charley Burton, a native of Charlottesville VA, is the owner of Charley Speaks, where he conducts speaking engagements and training sessions about the experiences of being a Black Transman in the South. Charley serves on several boards, including Equality VA, Charlottesville Human Rights Commission, Governor Northam’s LGBTQ+ Advisory, and PFLAG of Greater Charlottesville, and has founded Diversity in Recovery and Black Transmen Can Cook. He was honored in 2021 as an Outstanding Virginian by Equality VA and other organizations for his contributions to the community. Charley currently works for WorkSource, where he manages and trains people with various disabilities and was voted as Morehouse Man of the Month in 2022. Charley’s life story is told in the book, The Boy Beneath My Skin, available on Amazon. This is just not one man’s story; in many ways, it's a story about us all.
“I hope to see everyone at TIES who has attended before and for those who have never attended and plan to be there, it will be one of the most rewarding, empowering days of your journey. A place in VA where all of us can be US! Thanks EV!”
Chris Berg (he/him)
Chris Berg joined Equality Virginia’s board in 2023. He lives in Hanover with his wife and two gender-diverse children. Since his child came out as transgender, Chris has been advocating for LGBTQ+ youth and supportive parents.
“I'm excited to be part of planning TIES because I think seeing and hearing from transgender elders is incredibly important for youth. They need to know that they can grow up and flourish.”
Mel Howard (he/him/King/Monarch)
Mel Howard is a foster parent, a long term partner and advocate for LGBTQ+ Youth, serving as the Executive Director of Thriving Transmen of Color. TTMOC is a grassroots non-profit organization that provides community development programs, crisis services, and referrals to those who have been deprived of the most basic living conditions. Mel is dedicated to promoting brotherhood, community engagement, and civic activism.
“TIES is bridging the gap for those who are unable to see the gap in the first place.”
Rachel Stallard (they/them)
Rachel is part of an intersectional cultural and community organizing art collective focused on LGBTQIA+ issues and creating safe spaces for marginalized communities at intersections. Based in the beautiful Appalachian mountains of far southwestern Virginia, Rachel is passionate about public health and community building. They view TIES as a transformative opportunity to bring knowledge and resources to rural areas where such support is scarce.
“TIES is exciting to me because it is life changing to folx where I’m from. What we have are folx that accept responsibility for trying to look out for one another. When I think about TIES, I think about possibilities.”
Breona Pittman
Breona “ Pretty” Ova King, from Norfolk, Virginia, has been performing for over 20 years in pageantry and ballroom, earning her many titles and legendary status, including Miss Nationz Plus. She currently works for the Nationz Foundation and aims to start her own nonprofit for trans-identifying individuals. Breona uses her platform to educate and inspire, believing that one's past does not dictate their future. Breona loves to make people laugh, entertain, and share her Diva wisdom!
Caden Haney
Caden Haney, a Charlottesville, VA native, is a dedicated advocate for trans inclusion, body acceptance, and mental health awareness. With experience in sexual health, wellness, housing, and community-based resources, Caden brings valuable perspectives and a wealth of knowledge to discussions on transgender issues, particularly in education and healthcare.