INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHANGE OF NAME USING THE ONLINE SYSTEM
Rev 3-2026 Page 1 of 4
PLEASE NOTE: A name change is NOT necessary if:
• You are a Hawaii resident who was married in the State of Hawaii and declared on your
Marriage Certificate that you will be taking your spouse’s name.
• You are divorced and your Divorce Decree stipulates resumption of a maiden name or
previous name.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Please read the following instructions before starting your application.
• Non-refundable Filing Fees. There is a non-refundable $50.00 filing fee, $1.00 archive
fee and $5.00 service fee for Name Change applications submitted online. Additional
fees apply. All fees are non-refundable.
• Additional Fees. Additional costs include: cost to publish Notice of Name Change (for
rates contact the Star Advertiser at legals@staradvertiser.com); and Recording fee
$41.00 to file the Order with the Bureau of Conveyances. All fees are non-refundable.
• Corrections to your Name Change application. If corrections to your application are
needed, you must first contact the Office of the Lt. Governor to re-open your
application. Do not start a new application.
• Certified Copy of Birth Certificate. If you were born in the United States, you must
submit a newly-issued birth certificate that is no older than 90 days. If the name change
is for a minor child, the birth certificate for the child must be no older than 90 days.
Parents petitioning for a child must also submit birth certificates, but these may be
photocopies of original documents.
To obtain a certified copy of a Hawaii birth certificate, please visit vitrec.ehawaii.gov.
For applicants who were not born in the United States, the following is required:
o Original Certificate of Naturalization; or
o If the applicant is not a U.S. Citizen:
• A copy of passport and birth certificate (translated into English if
applicable) OR
• A copy of passport and family register OR
• A copy of passport and alien registration card (green card)
For United States citizens who were not born in the United States and do not have a
certificate of Naturalization, please contact our office at LTgov.help@hawaii.gov.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHANGE OF NAME USING THE ONLINE SYSTEM
Rev 3-2026 Page 2 of 4
Notarizing your Name Change Petition. Petition must be notarized by a Notary Public commissioned
in the State of Hawaii and submitted within 30 days of notarization.
• Online Help. For technical assistance please contact Technical Support at
(808) 695-4620, Mon-Fri excluding holidays, 7:45am - 4:30pm.
• Name Change Procedure Questions. Please contact the Office of the Lieutenant
Governor at LTgov.help@hawaii.gov. The Office of the Lieutenant Governor cannot
render legal advice regarding name changes. If you have legal questions, you should
contact an attorney.
THE APPLICATION PROCESS
1. Log into namechange.ehawaii.gov with your ehawaii.gov username and password. If
you do not have an account, create a free account by clicking on 'Create Free Account' on
the log in page.
2. Complete your name change application. After logging in, select your application type (i.e.,
individual, couple, minor) and proceed to fill out your application. Your session will time-out after
120 minutes and your application will not be saved until a payment is made.
Note: If you are filling out the application as a parent for a minor child, you are the Applicant (Petitioner).
Before starting your online application, be prepared to enter the following information:
Legal Names
• Applicant’s name (this is your current full legal name). Include any diacritical marks in your
name, such as ʻokina.
• Applicant’s mother’s maiden name
• Applicant’s father’s name
Other Names
• Applicant’s name on Birth Certificate
o Birth Certificate date (original date of issue)
o Birth Certificate number
• Applicant’s name on Certificate of Naturalization (if applicable)
o Certificate of Naturalization date
o Certificate of Naturalization number
• Applicant's name on Social Security card (if applicable)
• Applicant's name used at most recent place of employment (if applicable)
• Applicant's name on Divorce Decree (if applicable)
• Applicant’s name on most recent Marriage Certificate or Civil Union
License (if applicable)
• Applicant’s name on Driver’s License or State I.D. (if applicable)
• Other names used by applicant or minor child (examples: previous married names, prior
name changes, names on other official documents)
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHANGE OF NAME USING THE ONLINE SYSTEM
Rev 3-2026 Page 3 of 4
General Information
• Name of partner in civil union, marriage, divorce (must include all marriages and divorces)
• Name and birth date of living children (if applicable)
• Felony conviction information (if applicable)
New Name
• Requested new name (include any diacritical marks in your new name, such as ʻokina).
3. Pay for your name change application. After you have filled out your application, make a
payment by credit card. All payments are non-refundable.
4. Download the forms. After you have filled out your information and submitted payment, you
will be able to download the set of documents that need to be printed and notarized. The set of
documents contain:
• Petition
• Fact Sheet
• Notice of Change of Name
• Order
5. Print the documents single sided. Do not print on both sides of a page.
6. Have your Petition notarized. Take your Petition to a Notary Public, commissioned by the
State of Hawaii. In the presence of the Notary, sign your Petition and have it notarized by the
official. Name Change paperwork must be submitted to the Office of the Lt. Governor within 30
days of notarization. (If for a Minor, all parents on the child’s birth certificate must sign and
notarize the petition or consent form).
7. Mail the documents listed below to: Office of the Lieutenant Governor, Hawai'i State Capitol,
415 South Beretania Street, 5th floor, Honolulu, Hawai'i 96813.
• Petition (signed and notarized)
• Fact Sheet
• Notice of Change of Name
• Order
• Birth certificate (newly-issued birth certificate that is no older than 90 days). This
applies to adults changing their name or for a minor child whose name is being
changed.
• And, if applicable
o All Marriage Certificates, Civil Union Licenses and/or Divorce Decrees
o Death Certificate (of a deceased parent of a minor to show consent is not
required)
o Adoption Decree or Guardianship Decree (to show paternal or guardianship rights
over a minor)
o Prior Name Change Decrees
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHANGE OF NAME USING THE ONLINE SYSTEM
Rev 3-2026 Page 4 of 4
• Along with your documents, enclose:
o (1) self-addressed #10 (letter sized) envelope with first class postage affixed
o (1) self-addressed large manila envelope (9”x12”) with $3.00 postage affixed
Once your name change is approved, the Lieutenant Governor will sign the Notice of Change of
Name. The Notice will be mailed to you so you can submit it for publication. You can request to
pick up your documents rather than having them mailed. Please inform the office if this is your
choice.
8. Publish your Notice of Change of Name. You must submit the Notice to the Star Advertiser
to be published. There is a fee to publish your Notice. For rates, contact the Star Advertiser at
legals@staradvertiser.com.
You have sixty (60) days from the date your Notice was signed to publish in the newspaper.
Failure to publish within sixty (60) days will automatically void your Petition for Change of
Name.
To affirm the publication of the Notice, the newspaper will submit an affidavit to you and to the
Lieutenant Governor’s Office. Once the Lieutenant Governor’s office receives this affidavit, the
Lieutenant Governor will sign the Name Change Order and it will be mailed to you.
9. File the Order with the Bureau of Conveyances. For your name change to be completed, you
must file the original, signed Order with the Bureau of Conveyances within sixty (60) days from
the date your Order was signed. There is a filing fee of $41.00.
To file the Order by mail, send the original Order with a check or money order payable to
'Bureau of Conveyances' to: Bureau of Conveyances, Post Office Box 2867, Honolulu, HI
96803.
To file the Order in person, go to: Bureau of Conveyances, Kalanimoku Building, 1151
Punchbowl Street, Honolulu, HI 96813. Accepted forms of payment when filing in person are
cash, check or money order.