Skip to navigation menu
Skip to content
Gender Clinic
On This Page
Clinics
Gender Clinic
Gender-Affirming Care at Seattle Children's
Seattle Children's Gender Clinic provides gender-affirming medical care and support for adolescents whose gender identity is different from their sex at birth.
Our clinic primarily provides gender-affirming medical care. Brief mental health support focused on family discussion, decision making, and mental health documentation prior to initiating gender-affirming medical care is also provided. If you are looking for gender-affirming mental health services only, or for ongoing mental health support, here are some community resources .
Our team:
Fully accepts and treats each individual with respect
Gives each patient personalized care
Follows current best practices and evidence
Services We Provide
Brief mental health support
Your first visit in the Gender Clinic will be with a mental health therapist before you see a medical provider. Our team will continue to support you and your family with any questions or concerns that arise as you pursue gender-affirming medical care, but we do not offer ongoing mental health therapy appointments. If you have an existing mental health provider and feel comfortable with our team collaborating with them, we can coordinate your care to ensure you are receiving all of the support you need.
Gender-affirming medical care
For patients and families interested in learning about gender-affirming medical care, our team can help design an individualized care plan that takes into account the patient's stage of puberty, future care goals and any current or past health concerns. Gender-affirming medical care is only available for patients who have started puberty and requires consent from parents or guardians, unless the patient is an emancipated minor. Our team can help answer questions about consent if needed.
Scheduling an Appointment With the Gender Clinic
We require a referral from your primary care provider to schedule an appointment. After a referral has been submitted by your primary care provider, please call 206-987-2028 to make an appointment.
If you have recently relocated to Washington and have not established care with a primary care provider or if you're having any challenges getting a referral from a primary care provider, please call 206-987-5768 .
If you are currently receiving gender-affirming medications and would like to transfer your care to our team, please let us know when calling to schedule an appointment.
If your primary care provider or mental health provider would like to consult with one of the members of the Gender Clinic team regarding your care, please have them submit an electronic consultation .
If you already have an appointment, learn more about how to prepare and what to expect .
Confidentiality in Washington State
Parents and caregivers are very important for ensuring the growth and development of adolescents into healthy adults. We encourage adolescents to speak with their parents or caregivers about their health.
As providers, we are also dedicated to helping adolescents and young adults develop independence and practice being involved in medical decisions. As recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine and the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology, we offer time in the Adolescent Medicine Clinic to talk with your provider alone.
Contact Us
Contact the Gender Clinic at 206-987-2028 to make an appointment or for questions about scheduling.
Youth or families who need additional support resources that are not available on our website can contact our care navigators at 206-987-5768 .
Providers, see how to refer a patient .
Telemedicine at Seattle Children's
You may be offered a telehealth (virtual) appointment. Learn more about telemedicine at Seattle Children's .
Paying for Care
Learn about paying for care at Seattle Children's, including insurance coverage, billing and financial assistance.
Access Additional Resources
Get resources for patients and families , including information on food, housing, transportation, financial assistance, mental health and more.
Contact Us
Gender Clinic Phone
206-987-2028
More Contact Information
Related Links
Gender Clinic Patient Resources
What to Expect
Contact Us and Locations
Unicorn Family Guild
For Healthcare Professionals
Refer a Patient
Manage a Patient
Healthcare Professionals Resources
Provider News