Alabama Department of Insurance
Protecting Alabama.
Serving Alabamians.
Promoting a fair, stable, and competitive insurance market
for the people of Alabama.
Before you file a request for assistance with the Alabama Department of Insurance,
you should first contact the insurance company or producer in an effort to resolve
the issue(s). If you do not receive a satisfactory response, then fill in the Online Consumer Complaint Form.
When submitting a formal complaint to our office, please include the following items to
allow us to accurately handle your concerns:
Your complete name, mailing address and phone number to contact you
The full name of the insurance company, agent, agency or broker involved
Your policy number
The claim number, if applicable
A detailed description of your concerns
We Can...
Submit your complaint to your insurance company or insurance agent, agency or broker. They are required to respond to the Alabama Department of Insurance.
Review the response to determine whether or not the insurance entity acting according to the terms and conditions of the insurance policy in question.
If we determine that the insurance company or insurance professional did not meet the legal obligations of the policy, we will require corrective action.
Help you understand your insurance policy.
We Cannot...
Provide assistance with your insurance complaint if you have an attorney
Provide assistance to medical providers
Provide legal advice or provide legal representation
Provide medical advice
Intervene on your behalf in a pending lawsuit
Determine who was negligent or at fault
Determine the value of a claim or the amount of money owed to you
Determine the facts surrounding the claim or determine who is being truthful when there are different versions of the accident or claim
Determine the facts regarding any other disagreement between you and another party
Help resolve complaints or investigate matters for plans or insurance agents, agencies, brokers or companies that are not subject to the insurance laws of the State of Alabama
*Please note, if the insurance company is self-funded, your employer administers the program. You will need to contact your employer for assistance.
Continue to the Online Consumer Complaint Form
Click Here for the form in PDF format.
You must have Adobe Acrobat Reader on your computer in order to view the 'PDF' form.
Please click on the icon below to be taken to the Adobe web site to download Acrobat
Reader for free.
Alabama Department of Insurance
P O Box 303351
Montgomery, AL 36130-3351
334-241-4141 8:00 am – 5:00 pm
334-240-4431 AFTER HOURS
Online Services
Laws, Bulletins, & Regulations
FAQs
Surplus Line Brokers
Cybersecurity Notification System
Intern with the ALDOI
Disaster Preparedness
Employment Opportunities
Health Care Reform
Fraud Unit
State Fire Marshal Office
Strengthen Alabama Homes
Consumers
File a Complaint, Search for Life Insurance Policy, View Long-Term Care Info, etc.
More
Producers/Agents
Apply, Renew, or Print a License, View CE Transcript, Check Status, Exam Sites, etc.
More
Companies
Company Search, Filing Requirements, Rate Bulletins, Forms, Captives, Clarity Act, etc.
More
E-mail the Webmaster | Public Records | Disclaimer |
|
|