Skip Header to Content
News
Home » GLAD Law Condemns NH Ban on Access to Health Care for Transgender Adolescents
August 1, 2025
GLAD Law Condemns Governor Ayotte Banning Access to Health Care for Transgender Adolescents
Today, Governor Ayotte signed HB 377 , which prohibits medical professionals in New Hampshire from providing medically-necessary puberty-blocking medications and hormone replacement therapy for transgender patients under age 18 and denies parents of transgender youth the ability to seek expert medical care for their child.
The law will go into effect in January 2026. It will not impact anyone already receiving care before its implementation.
Statement from Chris Erchull, Senior Staff Attorney, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD Law):
“HB 377 epitomizes extreme government overreach into the private lives and personal decisions of New Hampshire families. The best way to protect the health and well-being of transgender young people is to ensure they can continue to access essential, age-appropriate medical care from licensed clinicians practicing according to well-established medical standards of care.
Parents know their children best, and New Hampshire families should be able to make health care decisions in consultation with their trusted providers, without government interference. This law takes that right away from parents who want nothing more than to care for their transgender child.
GLAD Law will continue to work with our allies and use every legal tool we have to ensure all New Hampshire residents—including transgender Granite Staters—can live freely and safely without government intrusion.”
English
Español de México
Português
简体中文
香港中文
Français
Tiếng Việt
العربية
Polski
Русский
Deutsch
Kreyòl Ayisyen
English
Your vote matters! Register, update your information, preview your ballot, and find your polling location at vote.org today.
X
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings .
Accept
Settings
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognizing you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
To learn more, visit our privacy policy .
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Settings