Skip to content
Identification Cards
Idaho identification cards are available for Idaho residents of all ages to show proof of age and identity only.
Related Pages
Related Pages
Drivers Licenses & ID Cards
Commercial Driver&#8217;s License (CDL)
Identification Cards
Motorcycle Endorsement
Who to Contact
Who to Contact
DMV
The Idaho DMV's Customer Contact Center.
Phone:
(208) 584-4343
Address:
PO Box 7129 Boise, ID 83707-1129
ID card requirements
To get an ID Card you must provide proof of U.S. Citizenship or Lawful Presence, identity, Idaho residency, and possibly your name. You can request a Star Card ID by providing two forms of Idaho residency.
Required Documents
Driver&#8217;s License and ID Required Documents
To get an Idaho license or ID card, the DMV needs to see proof of U.S. Citizenship or Lawful Presence, identity, Idaho residency, and name.
Free ID for voting
Idaho has made ID cards free if you need one to vote. Visit a county DMV office to apply. To be issued a free ID card for voting, you must meet the following requirements:
You must be at least eighteen (18) years old when you apply for the card
You must indicate you need the card for voting purposes on the application
You have proof of U.S. citizenship or the DMV already has scanned record of U.S. citizenship on file
A free ID for voting is issued for four (4) years at a time. If you get a free ID for voting, you are entitled to one (1) free replacement and free renewals as long as you continue to meet the requirements. Subsequently getting a driver&#8217;s license will end the free ID renewals and the one-time free replacement. You will not be required to surrender the ID card. If you already possess a driver’s license, you are required to surrender it at the time of your application for a free ID for voting.
The free ID for voting is the same as the standard Idaho ID Card, just offered at no charge to eligible applicants.
For more information about elections in Idaho visit the Idaho Secretary of State&#8217;s website .
Free ID for people experiencing homelessness
An initial four-year ID card may be issued, at no cost, to an individual who is homeless. Visit a county DMV office to apply. To be issued a free ID for the homeless, you must complete the following requirements:
Currently receiving services or housing from an Idaho homeless relief agency or shelter.
Provide a completed ITD form 3530.
A representative from the relief agency or shelter must accompany you during your application or the form must be notarized to be valid.
Provide all other required documents for an Idaho ID card. The documents required for obtaining an Idaho ID card can be found in the Required Documents section.
Note: ITD form 3530 will satisfy the requirement for proof of Idaho residency.
If you get a free ID for the homeless, you are entitled to one (1) free replacement. If you have been issued a free ID card under this program, any subsequent renewals will require payment of the standard fees.
The free ID for the homeless is the same as the standard Idaho ID card, just offered at no charge to eligible applicants.
Applicants who qualify for a free ID for the homeless may also obtain a free copy of their Idaho birth certificate from the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare (PDF).
Voluntary surrender of driver&#8217;s license for a free ID
If a driver decides they no longer want to drive due to medical or visual reasons, they may voluntarily surrender their driver&#8217;s license for a four-year no-charge ID card. When you voluntarily surrender your driver&#8217;s license, the following will apply:
You must take your driver&#8217;s license and a completed copy of Form 3220, Voluntarily Surrendering A Driver&#8217;s License For A No-Charge Identification Card Form (PDF) , to a county DMV office.
As long as your driver&#8217;s license remains canceled, you will be eligible to renew your identification card at no cost.
Your driver&#8217;s license will remained canceled until you make application for a new license, at which time you will be required to pass any applicable written, road, visual, and/or medical tests, pay full license fees, and surrender the free ID card.
The free ID under this program is the same as the standard Idaho ID card, just offered at no charge to eligible applicants.
Identification Card Fees
Type Current Fee
Under 18 $10.00
Age 18 to 21 $10.00
4-year (age 21 and over) $15.00
8-year (age 21 and over) $25.00
Duplicate ID *same as original