top of page
About Us
Our mission is to serve, empower, and become an ally to individuals and communities in Alabama through education, advocacy, and grassroots programs related to chronic health disparities (HCV, HBP, Diabetes) and HIV. We provide meaningful prevention programs and perform our services with compassion and care. We strive to promote hope, tolerance, and social justice for all people affected by chronic health disparities and HIV, and their communities.
​
CAARAC's service reach spans seven counties, including 4 black belt counties in Alabama. The counties served are Autauga, Dallas, Elmore, Lee, Lowndes, Macon and Montgomery.
CAARAC is a 501 (c) (3) nonprofit organization established in 2010 by six like-minded individuals who upon viewing HIV as a human rights issue, identified needs in the HIV community and sought to meet those needs through education, advocacy and compassionate social services. In 2018, the stakeholders decided to expand our reach by becoming an ally to organizations, communities, and individuals to not only work on issues directly related to HIV, but other health disparities that directly impact those in vulnerable populations. We will accomplish this directive through policy advocacy, leadership programs and community organizing. CAARAC performs services with compassion and care. It strives to promote hope, tolerance and social justice for all people affected by HIV and other health disparities, and the communities in which they live.
Our Mission
CAARAC envisions a global environment where chronic health disparities (HCV, HBP, Diabetes) and HIV related stigma is eliminated and access to care is available to everyone
Our Vision
CAARAC envisions a global environment where chronic health disparities (HCV, HBP, Diabetes) and HIV related stigma is eliminated and access to care is available to everyone
Our Values
Respecting the dignity of all by raising awareness and educating communities to minimize stigma
Empowering individuals through compassionate service
Leading through collaboration and community partnerships; and
Commitment to engage in work that promotes the development of human relationships
Our Philosophy
CAARAC empowers individuals and communities in Alabama affected by chronic health disparities with compassion and care. We also promote hope, tolerance and social justice for all people in the communities in which they live.
SOCIAL SUPPORT
FREE HIV TESTING
LIVED EXPERIENCE
1:1
COACHING
SUPPORT GROUPS
COMMUNITY EDUCATION & ENGAGEMENT
RESOURCE REFERRALS & SUPPORT
THE TEAM
Dr. Shakita B. Jones, MPA, DSW
Executive Director
Shakita is a Montgomery, AL native. As a graduate of Troy State University, she hold a B.S. in social work and a master's in social work from the University of Alabama. Shakita also has a master's degree in public administration and a nonprofit management certification from Auburn University Montgomery. Shakita is the Founder & Executive Director of Central Alabama Alliance Resource & Advocacy Center. Shakita's area of interests are understanding more about the root causes of poverty and the plight of the working poor; exploring increased HIV rates in Alabama; and applying practice knowledge to remove historical socioeconomic barriers that have disproportionately impacted Alabama's working poor in rural areas.
Phone: (334) 398-8912
Mail: sbjones@caarac.org
OUR GALLERY
​
​
​
​
​
bottom of page