Judge upholds North Dakota’s ban on trans health care for teens
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
October 9, 2025
CONTACT
Siena Iwasaki Milbauer, Communications Manager
[email&#160;protected]
651.789.2090 ext. 405
Bismarck, ND—
Yesterday, the Burleigh County District Court issued a ruling in T.D. v. Wrigley , upholding North Dakota’s sweeping ban on gender-affirming care for transgender youth.
“This ruling is devastating for transgender youth and their families in North Dakota,” said Jess Braverman, Legal Director at Gender Justice . “The evidence in this case was overwhelming: this law inflicts real harm, strips families of their constitutional rights, and denies young people the medical care they need to thrive.”
“The facts that came out at trial made clear what the medical community already knows: gender-affirming care is safe, effective, and for some transgender young people, the only care that can alleviate severe symptoms of gender dysphoria,” said Paige Suelzle, Litigation Counsel at the Lawyering Project . “It is disheartening that the court ignored the lived experiences of young people and the testimony of medical experts. We will continue to stand with trans young people and their families until the rights and dignity of all North Dakotans are upheld.”
Major medical organizations—including the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Medical Association—support gender-affirming care as evidence-based and medically necessary.
“Across the country, trans youth are being singled out and denied basic rights that every other young person takes for granted,” Braverman added . “We remain committed to ensuring that every family has the freedom to make private medical decisions without government interference, and are exploring all possible options with our client at this time.”
###
How We Make Change
Strategic & Impact Litigation
Expert Legal Analysis
What We Fight For
Trans & LGBQ Liberation
Where Barriers Occur
In Public
In School
In Healthcare
Related Work
T.D. v. Wrigley:
Protecting Access to Health Care for Transgender and Nonbinary Youth