​Before You Begin
The N.C. Division of Motor Vehicles uses an online service, called PayIt, that allows you to take advantage of completing multiple services in one secure transaction.
PayIt collects a $3 fee per online transaction​ plus​ a&#160;1.85 percent card processing fee​, These fees are used ​to deliver quality services more efficiently with no upfront costs to NCDMV. The Sta​te of North Carolina does not collect or benefit from the transaction or processing​​ fees.
Check out some
frequently asked questions​ for more information about PayIt and how to use the service.
Ready to Get a Replacement/Duplicate License or ID?
Individuals can order a replacement or duplicate driver license or ID card
on​line or at
an N.C. Division of Motor Vehicles driver license office if&#58;
Their license has been lost or stolen​​​
Their license is damaged or unreadable
Their address has changed
Their name has changed (driver license office only)
Please Note&#58; Customers must know their driver license or ID number to be able to order a replacement online.​ If you do not know the number, you must go to a driver license office to get a replacement.
&#160;
Ordering a Duplicate by Self-Service Kiosk
A​​ North Carolina resident can order a replacement or duplicate&#160;driver license or ID at a
self-service kiosk​ .
Please Note&#58; Customers must know their driver license or ID number to be able to order a replacement online. If you do not know the number, you must go to a driver license office to get a replacement.​
​
​​​​​​​​​​​Make an Appointment
Skip the line at driver license offices by
making an appointment online . If you do not find an available appointment, please continue to check back as new available appointments are added each day.
Requireme​​nts & Restrictions
To order a duplicate driver license or ID card online, an individual must have a valid license (with an "active" status) or valid ID as well as a photo on file with NCDMV that is no more than five years old.
An individual who meets any of the following conditions&#160;must visit an NCDMV driver license office&#58;
Has a suspended license or outstanding debt with NCDMV
Is applying for a duplicate commercial driver license with a P or S endorsement
Has a U.S. government document indicating legal presence
Wants to get an
N.C. REAL ID license
Name Cha​​nges
An individual has 60 days to notify&#160;​NCDMV&#160;of name changes and to get a duplicate driver license reflecting their new name.
Learn more about changing names with NCDMV .​​
7/10/2025 9:30 AM
Back to top