Skip to main content
License and ID Cards
Department Of Public Safety
Driver License
License and ID Cards
License and ID Cards
Document Requirements and Fees
Driver or Learner License (age 16 and older)
Two forms of identification, at least one of which contains a photograph (one form must be from the “primary” list, in addition to the Social Security card) or three forms of non-photo identification (one form must be from the “primary” list, in addition to the Social Security card).
Social Security card. *
Acceptable school enrollment form or proof of graduation (if younger than 19 and applying for the first time). **
$5 test fee (no checks).
Applicants 18 or older who wish to complete all testing for a license must have a licensed driver, proof of car insurance and a vehicle that will pass inspection.
$36.25 to purchase license (no checks).
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
Learner License (age 15)
U.S. birth certificate (certified and issued by the Bureau of Vital Statistics (NO PHOTOCOPIES)).
Social Security card. *
Acceptable proof of school enrollment or graduation. **
$5 testing fee (no checks).
$36.25 to purchase license (no checks).
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
CDL or CDL Learner License Applicants
Current driver license.
Social Security card.*
If transferring from out of state, applicant must present one document from the “primary” list (in addition to the Social Security number document).
Current Department of Transportation long medical form (unless medically exempt).
$25 testing fee (no checks).
Transportation Security Administration background check if transferring or obtaining a hazardous materials endorsement.
If not a U.S. citizen, applicant must legally be in permanent status in the United
States and domiciled in Alabama.
Skills test if upgrading a license or first-time applicant (test by appointment only; $20 skills test fee).
Proof of insurance.
$66.25 to purchase class “A” license.
$56.25 to purchase class “B” license.
$36.25 to purchase class “C” license.
$36.25 to purchase commercial learner license.
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
Motor-Driven Cycle License (ages 14 and 15)
U.S. birth certificate (certified and issued by the Bureau of Vital Statistics (NO PHOTOCOPIES)),
or
Alabama non-driver identification card or Alabama vessel license.
Social Security card. *
Third form of identification from “secondary” list (if other identification is nonphoto).
Fifteen-year-old applicants must have acceptable proof of school enrollment or graduation. **
$5 testing fee (no checks).
$36.25 to purchase motor-driven cycle license (no checks).
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
Out-of-State License Transfers
Must be at an ALEA Office.
Out-of-state driver license.
Social Security card. *
One item from primary list, in addition to the Social Security card.
Proof of school enrollment or graduation (if younger than 19). **
$5 transfer fee (no checks).
$36.25 to purchase license (no checks).
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
Vessel License (age 12 and older)
U.S. birth certificate (certified and issued by the Bureau of Vital Statistics (NO PHOTOCOPIES)).
Social Security card. *
One other item from “secondary” list.
$5 for test or transfer fee (no checks).
$36.25 to purchase license.
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
Non-Driver Identification Card
One document from the primary list which verifies name and date of birth.
Social Security card. *
Third form of identification from the "primary" or "secondary” lists (required only if primary document is non-photo).
$36.25 to purchase non-driver identification card. *Plus an additional $5 document examination fee for first-time issuances.
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
Non-U.S. Citizens
A valid foreign passport with an acceptable visa or resident alien card.
Social Security number verification * or letter from Social Security stating non-eligibility.
Document from the “secondary” list authorizing presence in the U.S. for more than 160 days.
$5 test or transfer fee plus cost of license (no checks).
Credit Cards Accepted (MasterCard, Visa or Discover) convenience fee of 4% applies to the total charge.
* Social Security Verification
Social Security card (original). A Social Security card is required of all applicants who have been assigned and/or are eligible for the assignment of a Social Security number by the Social Security Administration.
U.S. military form DD 214.
Medicare/Medicaid identification card (if Social Security number is followed by the letter “A”).
W2 tax form.
** School Enrollment Documents
Form DL1/93.
Certificate of graduation.
GED certificate.
Acceptable Forms of Identification
Primary Documents
Certified U.S. birth certificate issued by an agency designated by state or federal authority.
U.S. passport.
Alabama identification card.
Alabama driver license.
Certificate of naturalization.
Certificate of citizenship.
U.S. certificate of birth abroad.
Resident alien card.
Valid foreign passport with valid U.S. immigration document.
Secondary Documents
U.S. state-issued driver license or non-driver ID card.
Current international driver license/permit.
Marriage license.
U.S. armed forces driver license.
U.S. military DD-214.
Professional license issued by a state or federal agency.
Selective Service card.
Veterans Administration card.
Current medical insurance identification card.
U.S. military ID card.
ID card issued by school with photo.
School enrollment form (DL-1/93).
Certified school record:
GED certificate;
Certificate of graduation.
W-2 tax form, along with copy of previous year’s filed forms (tax return).
Documents from court of record:
Divorce decree;
Adoption decree;
Name-change decree;
Bankruptcy decree.
Probation or release documents issued by state or federal department of correction with photo ID card issued by the same authority, or felon ID card issued by the sheriff of the county of the applicant’s release.
Additional Secondary Documents for Non-U.S. Citizens
Employment authorization document with valid Social Security card.
Valid visa (with supporting documents) authorizing presence in the United States for a period exceeding 160 days.
Valid I-94 arrival/departure record issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Original I-797 (notice of action) issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, showing approval of change of status or extension of stay.
Original I-797 (notice of action) issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, evidencing timely filing of an extension petition.
More In This Division
Document Requirements And Fees
Driver License Offices
Driver License Information
CDL Frequently Asked Questions
Driver Records, Crash Reports, and Driver License Reinstatements
Private High School Driver & Traffic Safety Education Program
ALEA Training Center
Driver License Point System
Driver License Forms
Driver License Manuals
ATV/UTV Registration
Star ID
Document Help
STAR ID Document List
STAR ID Frequently Asked Questions
License and ID Cards
Boat/Vessel License Requirements
Driver Licenses - Classes, Endorsements, and Restrictions
Graduated Driver License
Hardship Driver License
Ignition Interlock Laws
Road Test Study Guide
Sex Offender Driver License Designation
Driver License
Highway Patrol
Alabama Move Over Act
Alabama Tinting Regulations
Child Restraints Law
Communications Unit
Highway Patrol Contact Information
Motor Carrier Safety Unit
Seat Belt Law
Speed Limits
Superload Law Enforcement Escort
Volunteer First-Responder Vehicle Operators
Marine Patrol
Boat Equipment Checklist For Alabama
Boating Education and Operator Certification/License
Boating Forms and Permits
Boating Rules and Regulations
Marine Accident Report
Marine Patrol Contact Information
Marine Patrol Course and Marine Event Calendar
Safe Boating
LEADS
Online Resources
Other
Driver License Locations Map
State Of Alabama
Register Vehicle/Renew Vehicle Tags