Skip to main content
KingCounty.gov is an official government website. Here's how you know
Official government websites use .gov
Website addresses ending in .gov belong to official government organizations in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock lock or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Only share sensitive information on official, secure websites.
Scheduled network maintenance tonight at 6 PM
Our website may be briefly unavailable as a result. We expect work to be completed no later than 8 PM.
×
Contact the Clerk's Office
Email: clerksofficecustomerservice@kingcounty.gov
Live Chat : 9:00 a.m - 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday
Phone: 206-296-9300 - 9:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m, Monday through Friday
Need an interpreter?
አንድ አስተርጓሚ ይፈልጋሉ?
需要一名口 译员？
需要一位口譯員嗎？
Нужен переводчик?
Ma u baahan tahay turjubaan?
&iquest;Necesita un int&eacute;rprete?
Qu&yacute; vị cần th&ocirc;ng dịch vi&ecirc;n?
Frequently Asked Questions
How can I get help with my legal problem?
expand_more
Please click HERE for a list of legal assistance resources.
How do I file a protection order?
expand_more
For forms and instructions for filing, visit the Civil Protection Orders page.
How do I file a new case?
expand_more
For instructions on how to file a new case, visit the Electronic Filing & Service page. To electronically file a new case, use the KC Script Portal .
Attorneys are required to file electronically ( See LGR 30 ). People without attorneys can either file electronically or can file in person or by mail.
To file a new case, you will need to have the minimal required documents for that case type and the filing fee or a fee waiver. To find out what documents you need to file your case, click here .
To find the forms that you need to file a case, click here .
For help filing a family law case, click here .
Filing by mail? Send your completed forms to one of our three Superior Court Clerk offices . If a filing fee is required, include the appropriate payment and address your envelope ATTN: Cashiers. For a "received" stamped copy of your filed document, include a self-addressed stamped envelope and an extra copy of the document.
Questions about fee waivers? Click here .
What is the filing fee for a case?
expand_more
A list of filing fees for different types of Superior Court cases can be found on the Superior Court & Clerk's Fee Information page.
How do I tell the Court what I need in my case, and what is the process for filing a motion?
expand_more
You can tell the Court what you need in your case by filing a motion. A motion is a written request that explains what you are asking the Court to do and why. After you fill out the right forms, you file them into your case and follow the steps for scheduling your motion. You can learn more about how motions work and what steps to follow here: https://kcll.org/motions/
Where can I find court forms?
expand_more
For commonly used local forms or Superior Court forms, visit this site . Additional information is provided on this site for other forms.
How do I get a copy of a court record?
expand_more
For most cases, visit the KC Script Portal and follow these instructions .
To obtain access to sealed documents or a sealed case , the Clerk must verify your identity. This can be done in-person at one of our courthouse locations or virtually. To visit us virtually, submit a records request through the KC Script Portal. After submitting, you will receive further instructions on how to meet with a clerk virtually.
Access to sealed and confidential records is only permitted to approved parties as mandated by the Court, statute and/or rule.
For sealed juvenile cases (case type 8) please go to the CCFJC Clerk's office and they will give you instructions.
How do I find a case number?
expand_more
King County Superior Court Case numbers can be found by using the Case Search tool located in the KC Script Portal . Confidential case information may not be accessible through the KC Script Portal.
For cases prior to 1979, there are limited microfiche records available to search online . Additional microfiche is available at the King County Superior Court Clerk's Office located at 516 Third Avenue, Room E609, Seattle, WA 98194.
If you would like to request court records but do not know the case number, the Clerk's Office staff can assist in your search at a rate of $30.00 per hour. Your request can be submitted through the KC Script Portal , or by phone at 206-477-0691 , or by email at desk.correspondence@kingcounty.gov .
How do I find my court date?
expand_more
Court dates for your specific case can be found in the KC Script Portal . Court dates can
be found on the Events tab.
How do I do a change of venue in my case?
expand_more
To transfer a pending Superior Court action from King County to another jurisdiction, you must present an Order Changing Venue to the assigned judge in the case, or to the Ex Parte Department (not via Ex Parte via the Clerk). You will receive an invoice for the $20 processing fee plus $0.50 per page for the entire court file, which you must pay before the case is transferred. You should also check for any applicable filing fees in the new county. See Civil Rule 82(d).
How do I file a Name Change petition?
expand_more
To change your name, you must file a Petition for Change of Name and pay the $290.00 filing fee. You can get a form for a Petition to Change Name at the King County Law Library .
Once you have filed your Change of Name case, you can set a hearing by following instructions on the Ex Parte and Probate Department website .
How do I get a minor work permit?
expand_more
To obtain a minor work permit, you must file a petition for a minor work permit with the clerk and pay the civil filing fee. For more information, you can visit our case filing requirements page for Minor Work Permits.
For more information, please see this fact sheet .
How do I get a copy of my marriage license?
expand_more
For certified, physical copies of marriage certificates from 1855 to the present, contact the King County Recorder's Office or visit their office at the King Street Customer Service Center. Certified, physical copies from 1989 to the present are indexed and available to order on Landmark .
Digitally certified, downloadable marriage certificates from 1855 to 2017 are available for purchase through the Washington State Digital Archives . Some federal government agencies may not accept a digitally certified copy, but all WA State agencies are required to accept them.
Do I have to file a will or start probate?
expand_more
You can learn more about what to do with a will and when probate might be needed by referencing these links: https://kcll.org/end-of-life/ or https://www.wa-probate.com/
How do I apply for a marriage license?
expand_more
You must contact the Recorder's Office to find out the process of obtaining a marriage license . They can be reached Monday through Friday, 9:00am-2:00pm at 206-477-9521 or kcrocust@kingcounty.gov .
How do I pay a fine or fee?
expand_more
To pay online, visit the KC Script Portal . For instructions, go to this page .
To pay in-person, visit one of our three locations . Accepted in-person payment methods include cash, check, money order, cashier's check or a credit or debit card. Checks must be from a Washington state bank with the payer's name and address printed on the check.
To pay via mail, payment must be in the form of a check, cashier's check, or money order. Checks must be from a Washington state bank with the payer's name and address printed on the check. Be sure to include any applicable case number(s). Payment can be mailed to:
King County Clerk's Office
516 Third Avenue, Room E-609
Seattle, WA 98104
I have questions about jury duty.
expand_more
If you received a jury summons from King County Superior Court, it is important that you read the full document carefully. Your response is due as soon as possible. You can reply to the Jury Summons through their online portal or call them directly at 206-477-1320. More information can be found here .
Information regarding jury summons from District Court can be found here .
How do I take care of or quash a warrant?
expand_more
In order to update a Superior Court case, the Clerk's Office will need the warrant returned from the Sheriff's Office or an order quashing the warrant from the court. For assistance on an existing warrant, visit this site .
How do I file a Good To Go! appeal?
expand_more
If you have had an administrative court hearing for a Good to Go! penalty and you do not agree with the agency's decision, you may appeal to the Superior Court.
After the administrative dispute hearing, you will receive a Final Order of Liability. You have 30 days from the date of the final order to file your appeal with the Superior Court. You may file your appeal either in the Superior Court of the county where you live or in Thurston County Superior Court in Olympia. The action you will be filing is a new Administrative Law Review case and requires a civil filing fee (currently in King County, $240). The appeal document is called a "Petition for Review of an Administrative Order."
You may wish to consult with an attorney or visit the King County Law Library for assistance.
Click for more information on any of the following topics:
About the Clerk's Office
Accommodations
Blake/State v. Blake
CLE/Continuing Legal Education
Clerk's Alerts
Data Dashboard
Disbursements/Accounting
District Court
Divorce
Drug Court
Electronic Exhibits
Electronic Filing
Ex Parte & Probate Department
Ex Parte via the Clerk
Fees and Fines
Fee Waivers
Filing
Forms
Hours/Court Hours
Indigent Counsel Certifications
KC Script Portal
Legal Financial Obligations
Legal Publications
Legal Assistance Resources
Local Court Rules
Locations/Court Locations
Non-Compliance Fees
Protection Orders
Public Disclosure Requests
Records/Court Records
Transcriptions
Trust Fund
Will Repository
Working Copies