Skip to main content
Other Matters
Probate Courts have jurisdiction to hear petitions in over 72 varieties of legal matters including, but not limited to:
name changes;
quarantine and isolation orders for public health emergencies;
tuberculosis treatment;
removal of life support;
restoration of firearms rights;
confirmation of change in gender for residents born in another state or foreign jurisdiction;
review agent's conduct under a power of attorney;
delayed birth registrations;
accounting and reports of cemetery associations;
preservation of grave markers and ancient burial grounds.
Highlights
Name Changes
Connecticut residents may petition their local probate court to change their name. Minors must petition for a change of name through a parent or guardian as next friend.
Quarantine, Isolation, Vaccination, and Tuberculosis
Probate Courts have authority to hear appeals of quarantine, isolation, and vaccination orders issued by the state Department of Public Health, or local Public Health Director. A Health Director may petition the Probate Court for enforcement, continuation, or commitment of an individual for treatment of tuberculosis.
Birth Registrations
Under Connecticut statute, any parent or legal guardian of any minor who is one year of age or older for whom no birth certificate is on file may request a delayed registration of birth. For those minors who are under one year of age and were born outside an institution, any parent or legal guardian may petition the Probate Court for creation and filing of a certificate.
Confirm Gender Change of Person Born Outside Connecticut
Under Connecticut law, the Department of Public Health has authority to change the gender on a birth certificate of a person born in Connecticut under C.G.S. § 19a-42. When a person resides in Connecticut, but was born out-of-state, they may petition the Probate Court where they reside for an order amending the out-of-state birth certificate to reflect gender change.
Cemetery Associations
The treasurer of a cemetery association may file their annual report in the local Probate Court. Any interested party may petition the Probate Court to compel a treasurer of a cemetery association to account.
Burial Grounds
Petition for removal of grave marker for purpose of reproduction, preservation or display in museum, and owner or lineal descendent cannot be reached. C.G.S. § 19a-315b. Before making renovations to ancient burial place, cemetery or burial place as whole, burial ground authority must notify Probate Court. C.G.S. § 19a-315c.
Restoration of Firearm Rights
When a Probate Court finds a person to be mentally incompetent, he or she may not buy, sell, own, or possess a firearm, and his or her name is listed with the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. A person who has recovered from an incapacity or a psychiatric disability may ask the Probate Court to reinstate his or her firearm rights.
And more...
Protecting the rights of families and individuals
Other Matters Resources
Forms
Check this list for downloadable access to forms that may be applicable to these matters.
Name Changes
Applying for a legal name change in Connecticut is a simple, straightforward process. Check out these 5 steps.
Quick access to what you&#039;ll need most
Online tools & access for other matters
eFiling
Electronic filing system for attorneys, self-represented individuals and certain Connecticut state agencies.
Fees & Expenses
Learn more about the standard fees and expenses that are related to these matters.
Find It Fast
Close
Forms and Documents
Forms
Children&#039;s Matters - Adoption - DCF Voluntary Services - Emancipation - Guardianship of Estate - Guardianship of Person - Parentage - Termination of Parental Rights - Uniform Transfer to Minors Act (UTMA) Conservatorship Intellectual Disabilities Mental Health Commitments - Adult Commitment - Child Commitment - Drug & Alcohol Commitment - ElectroConvulsive Therapy - Involuntary Medication Other Matters - Cemetery Associations - Confirmation of Gender Change - Foreign Subpoena - Health Care/End of Life Disputes - Name Change - Power of Attorney - Protective Services for the Elderly - Quarantine, Isolation, Vaccination - Release of Financial Hold - Restore Rights to Purchase, Possess or Transport Firearms - Sterilization PC Form Trusts & Estates - Decedent&#039;s Estate - Trust
View all forms
Documents
User Guides
Reports
Public Meetings
Online Tools
Case Lookup Tool
Court Location Finder
Fees & Expenses Tools
eFiling
eBilling
Close