Skip To Main Content This website is AudioEye enabled and is being optimized for accessibility. To open the AudioEye Toolbar, press "shift + =". Some assistive technologies may require the use of a passthrough function before this keystroke. For more information, activate the button labeled "Explore your accessibility options".
PROUD Gender Center - Transgender Community Services
Treatment & Care LGBTQIA Program PROUD Gender Center - Transgender ...
PROUD Gender Center of New Jersey
1-833-BH-PROUD (1-833-247-7683)
181 Somerset St., 2 nd Floor
New Brunswick, NJ 08901
At Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital (RWJUH) it is a top priority
to optimize health and well-being for every patient. Our
LGBTQIA Program is firmly rooted with that purpose in mind.
In full support of the transgender community, RWJUH provides a full suite
of specialized services designed to bring you to the best “you”
you can be.
At the Center, a multidisciplinary team of family medicine physicians,
gynecologists, urologists, endocrinologists, plastic surgeons and otolaryngologists
provides specialized care for LGBTQ patients. For individuals 19 years
of age or older, hormone therapy and surgical procedures are offered to
support the transition of transgender patients.
Services We Provide
Comprehensive primary care
Gender-affirming surgery including transfeminine and transmasculine top surgery
Gender-affirming bottom surgery for transmen
Facial feminization and facial masculinization surgery
Hormone therapy/endocrinology
Gynecology/urology
Otolaryngology/vocal training
Community outreach, education and training
Advocacy resources
Information and referral to behavioral and mental health support services
Support services
To complement our services, our
LGBT Health Navigators can assist with any questions that you may have and help guide you through
your experience.
More Information
View a list of websites to read more
information and resources about LGBT issues
To make an appointment, call
1-833-BH-PROUD or
1-833-247-7683 or
fill out our form .
Our Quality
Testimonials
Appointments
“When I look at my body now, it feels like this is how I’ve always been, which is pretty incredible. It just feels natural.”
Gwyndolin
Read More
“When I’m at PROUD, I find peace and comfort. It’s a safe haven.”
Starr
Read More
View All LGBTQ+ Stories
Watch Testimonial
Watch Testimonial
View All Posts
Nov 14, 2024
RWJBarnabas Health Named a 2024 NJBIZ Empowering Women Honoree
Jun 5, 2024
RWJBarnabas Health Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leaders and Employees Join the Jersey PRIDE Parade and Festival
Jun 3, 2024
RWJBarnabas Health Celebrates Pride Month Throughout New Jersey
View All Events
Proud Transitions Family Support Group - Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital
Oct 15, 2026
menu
Find A Doctor
Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital
1 Robert Wood Johnson Place
New Brunswick ,
NJ
08901
USA
(732) 828-3000
Get Directions
(888) 724-7123
Not finding the treatment you're looking for?
View All Services
Opens in new window
PDF Download
Word Download
Excel Download
PowerPoint Download
Document Download
Explore your accessibility options