Skip to main content
Change My Address or Name
How do I change my address?
If you have a beginner's permit, driver's license, or identification card, and have moved within the state, you may change your address online, at an SCDMV branch, or by mail.
Notify Postal Service of Address Changes
Please inform the U.S. Postal Service of your address change before updating your address with SCDMV or you may not receive your credentials.
Info Alert
You must change your name or address within 10 days of the move. When you change your name or address with the SCDMV, all of your vehicle and driver records automatically update, and new vehicle registration cards will be mailed to you.
It is free to update your address online. You don't have to get a new permit, license, or ID card, but you may buy one if you're interested.
When you tell the SCDMV about a change of address, they send it to the SC Election Commission, unless you choose otherwise.
Sending a change of address to the SC Election Commission doesn't automatically sign you up to vote.
Change my address
To change your address in person, you may visit any SCDMV branch.
Find an SCDMV Branch
If you change your address by mail, you must complete the Application for Name and/or Address Change (SCDMV Form 4057) . You can also update your information online or at any SCDMV branch.
How do I change my name?
You may change your name at an SCDMV branch and buy a new beginner's permit, driver's license, or identification card if you do all of the following:
Complete the Application for Name and/or Address Change (SCDMV Form 4057)
Complete the Application for a Beginner's Permit, Driver's License, or Identification Card (SCDMV Form 447-NC)
Present proper documentation
You must change your name with the Social Security Administration at least 48 hours before visiting the SCDMV to change your name.
Caution Alert
You must change your name with the Social Security Administration at least 48 hours before visiting the SCDMV to change your name.
The proper documentation includes any of the following:
Marriage license
Divorce decree
Court order (issued by your county's family court)
Documentation supporting a preferred name (see below)
It's $10 for a new license that reflects your updated name unless you're interested in a REAL ID. Your first REAL ID is $25 since it's considered renewing your license. You must have all required documents to purchase a REAL ID.
You only have one opportunity to change your name when you get married. You may not change your name again to a different variation of your married name without a court order.
Using a Preferred Name
A preferred name is a name that you may use now instead of the one you were given at birth. It must show a reasonable link to your name at birth, and it must be the same name on file with the Social Security Administration. For example, a preferred name could be a shortened version of your full first name (Bill for William or Sue for Susan).
If you would like a card issued in your preferred name, you must present three different documents showing your full preferred name. Each document must indicate you've used that name for at least 15 years.
Acceptable preferred name documents include, but are not limited to:
Financial records
Government or military records from recognized governments (federal, state, municipal)
School records
Insurance records
Employment records
Medical records
Preferred name documents must be provided to the SCDMV in addition to all required acceptable documents for beginner permits, driver's licenses, or identification cards.