Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Louisiana Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. A hearing is not required. There is no publication requirement.
Name Change (Minor): Yes. Parental consent or notice required for a name change for minors. There is no publication requirement. There may be a hearing if a known legal parent does not petition.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order of name change is required to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes, A certified copy of a court order to amend gender marker on a birth certificate is required to make this amendment. Obtaining the court order requires proof you have undergone gender-affirming surgery.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order of name change is required.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes. A physician’s letter testifying to your transition is required.
Restrictions Based on Prior Criminal Convictions: Yes. You cannot change your name while incarcerated, on probation, or on parole for a felony conviction. If you have a conviction for a violent felony, you cannot change your name.
Louisiana Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Louisiana, you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the district court . You can find your court in your parish of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Please note, you cannot change your name while incarcerated or on probation or parole for a felony conviction. If you have a conviction for a violent felony, you cannot change your name even after completing parole or probation.
Step 1: Check the Requirements for Your Parish
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name from your parish of residence or parish of birth. The forms can vary depending on the locality.
For step-by-step instructions and model forms for each parish, visit Louisiana Trans Advocates ID Center .
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your parish of residence. You can find your district court here.
All the required forms are available here . Double-check that all of the information on the forms is correct for your parish. You will need:
Petition of Name Change
Judgement for Name Change
A copy of your birth certificate
A valid form of photo ID (e.g. your driver's license or passport)
Filing fee (varies depending on parish)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the In Forma Pauperis. Contact your court clerk for the proper paperwork required.
Step 3: Issuance of Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will issue a response and sign the Judgement for Name Change.
If the court approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the court does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Louisiana Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. A These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the district court . You can find your court in your parish of residence here. It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Step 1: Check the Requirements for Your Parish
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name from your parish of residence or parish of birth. The forms can vary depending on the locality.
For step-by-step instructions and model forms for each parish, visit Louisiana Trans Advocates ID Center .
You will need to check the name of the District Attorney for the district court in your parish of residence or parish of birth.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your parish of residence. You can find your district court here.
All the required forms are available here . Double-check that all of the information on the forms is correct for your parish. You will need:
Petition of Name Change
Judgement for Name Change
A copy of the minor's birth certificate
A valid form of photo ID for petitioning parent(s) (e.g. your driver's license or passport)
Filing fee (varies depending on parish)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the In Forma Pauperis. Contact your court clerk for the proper paperwork required.
Step 3: Obtain Parental Consent
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary, and you can proceed to the next step.
Consent is not needed from a parent if 1) they are deceased, 2) parental rights have been terminated, 3) a parent has failed to comply with court ordered child support for a period of a year, 4) a parent has failed to support the child for a period of three years after judgment awarding custody to the parent signing the petition, 5) or a parent has refused or failed to visit, communicate, or attempt to communicate with the child without just cause for a period of two years.
If a known legal parent is not petitioning, they will need to be notified of your name change through the serving process, and you may be scheduled for a hearing. You will need to serve them with a copy of the Petition for Change of Name and a Notice of Hearing. Contact your parish court clerk for the necessary requirements and forms.
If the non-petitioning parent lives in Louisiana, you will need to have the required documentation hand-delivered (through personal service). If the non-petitioning parent lives out-of-state, you will need to send them the required documentation through certified mail. Make sure to request a return receipt as you will need to bring this to your hearing.
Please contact your local district court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation for your parish.
Step 4: Attend Hearing (if applicable)
The court may schedule a hearing, if a known legal parent is not petitioning. If you are scheduled for a hearing, you and your petitioning guardian(s) will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
Step 5: Issuance of Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed or your hearing is concluded, the court will issue a response and sign the Judgement for Name Change.
If the court approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the court does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Louisiana Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Louisiana Department of Health will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments and for gender marker amendments.
When Amending the Name Only
To change your name on your birth certificate , you will need to submit the following:
Application to Amend Birth Certificate
A certified copy of the court order of name change
A copy of a valid form of photo ID
A copy of your original birth certificate
The required $27.50 fee, which includes one certified copy of the certificate. The fee can be paid as a check or money order. There is an additional $9.00 fee for multiple copies.
Please note, for amendments made to a minor’s birth certificate, you should submit the child’s original birth certificate as well as photo ID for both parents listed on the birth certificate. If you are amending the name of a minor who is 12 years of age or under, you must complete the Affidavit for Correcting of Given Names Only . This document will need to be notarized.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Louisiana will update the gender marker on a certificate of birth upon receipt of a court order certifying gender change. “The court shall require such proof as it deems necessary to be convinced that the petitioner was properly diagnosed as a transsexual or pseudo-hermaphrodite, that sex reassignment or corrective surgery has been properly performed upon the petitioner, and that as a result of such surgery and subsequent medical treatment the anatomical structure of the sex of the petitioner has been changed to a sex other than that which is stated on the original birth certificate of the petitioner” (La. R.S. 40:62). You can file your petition with either a court in the parish where you were born or the parish where you currently reside.
When the court order is approved, a copy of the judgment for a new certificate will be sent to the Vital Records Office within ten days of the judgement. A new birth certificate will be issued and the original record will be sealed.
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to submit:
A certified copy of the court order certifying gender change
Application to Amend Birth Certificate
A copy of your original birth certificate
A copy of a valid form of photo ID
The required $27.50 fee, which includes one certified copy of the certificate. The fee can be paid as a check or money order. There is an additional $9.00 fee for multiple copies.
A certified copy of the court order of name change (if amending your name simultaneously)
Note: If you have a court order for gender change obtained outside of Louisiana, you will have to file a foreign judgment to have the foreign judgment made executory by an appropriate Louisiana court before Louisiana Vital Records will accept it.
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Louisiana, you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Louisiana Vital Records Office. Requests are processed 8-12 weeks from the submission date.
Mailing address:
Vital Records Registry
Attn: Amendments Department
P.O. Box 60630
New Orleans, LA 70160
If you are no longer a Louisiana resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Louisiana, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Louisiana Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Louisiana, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records at 225-342-9500.
Louisiana Driver's License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on a Louisiana driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Louisiana residency
Proof of car insurance
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Louisiana driver's licenses and ID cards can display a gender of either F or M. There is currently no option for an X gender marker in Louisiana.
To change your gender marker on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A statement signed by a physician stating that the applicant has undergone a successful gender change/reassignment.
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Louisiana residency
Proof of car insurance
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your DMV at (225) 925-6146.
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Louisiana Trans Advocates —compiled detailed guidelines to help you navigate the name change process for your parish as well as update your identity documents. They also offer a range of community support groups across the state.
Email: info@latransadvocates.org
BreakOUT! —focuses on empowering LGBTQ youth who are directly impacted by the criminal or juvenile justice system. They have a variety of transgender community resources as well as legal resources listed.
Email: info@pflagno.org
Phone: (504) 473-2651
Louisiana Legislature Code Citations
Issuance of new birth certificate for child with mistaken sex designation on original birth record— La. R.S. 40:62.1
Issuance of new birth certificate after anatomical change of sex by surgery— La. R.S. 40:62
Petition for name change— La. R.S. 13:4751
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe