Legal Help
Asylum
Eligibility
Persecution
Physical Presence
One-Year Filing Deadline
Criminal Bars to Asylum
Passing a Credible/Reasonable Fear Interview
Withholding of Removal
Convention Against Torture Relief
Application Process
Work and Travel While Pending
Case Outcome
Refugees
Case Law
Asylum Manual
Self-Help Asylum Guides
People Living with HIV
Detention
Couples and Families
Foreign-born Children of Same-Sex Couples
Bi-national Couples
Dual Foreign-national Couples
Other Paths to Status
Refugees
Diversity Visa Program
Provisional Unlawful Presence Waiver
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)
U Visa
T Visa
Violence Against Women Act
Special Immigrant Juvenile Status
Resources
Legal Help Inquiry Form
Know Your Rights
Asylum Manual
Self-Help Asylum Guides
Country Conditions Materials
Practice Advisories and Alerts
Alert: Annual Fees For Asylum, WoR and CAT Applications
USCIS Registration Requirement
FAQs: New Considerations for U.S. Passports, Immigration Forms, and Documents for Trans, Non-binary, and Intersex People
Attorneys, Advise Your Clients of Their Rights
Reports
Navigating the immigration system is daunting on your own. We’re here to help.
If you are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer (LGBTQ) and/or HIV-positive and have a legal question or need representation, our legal resources can help.
Please note: The information contained herein is for reference only and may not be up to date. It does not constitute legal advice. You should always consult an attorney regarding your matter.
Start with our legal resources about:
Asylum
The information contained herein is for reference only and may not be up to date. It does not constitute legal advice. You should always consult an attorney regarding your matter. Last updated:&#8230;
Eligibility
In addition to the different eligibility factors detailed below, note that the Trump administration has created additional rules that may affect an asylum seeker&#8217;s eligibility to apply for asylum.
People Living with HIV
If you or a loved one fears detention or is currently detained, we can help.
Detention
Much of immigration law is predicated on familial relationships, but this can be tricky for LGBTQ+ families and couples.
Couples and Families
If you’re not eligible for asylum, there are other paths to status in the U.S., including DACA and visas.
Other Paths to Status
If you’re not eligible for asylum, there are other paths to status in the U.S., including DACA and visas.
Resources
The information contained herein is for reference only and may not be up to date. It does not constitute legal advice. You should always consult an attorney regarding your matter. If you’ve&#8230;
If you’ve looked through the legal resources and still have questions, please reach out.
Fill out our confidential form, and our legal team will respond to your question. Be thorough. Please note that due to the high volume of requests we receive, there may be a delay in our response. If you qualify for our services and we&#8217;re able to help, we will schedule an appointment with you. It&#8217;s best that the person seeking advice or services contact us directly.
Contact our legal team >
Contacte nuestro equipo legal >
Contacter notre équipe juridique >
Свяжитесь с нашей юридической командой >
با تیم حقوقی ما تماس بگیرید >
This handbook is intended for use by pro bono attorneys and immigration attorneys working on LGBTQ/HIV asylum cases.
Visit
Self-help asylum guides for LGBTQ and HIV-positive people without attorneys.
Visit
single-legal.php
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site, we will assume that you are okay with that. OK