Skip to Content
Press Room
Search the Legislature
Search the Legislature
Search
Senate Press Room
Massachusetts Legislature Strengthens Protections for Reproductive and Gender-Affirming Health Care Services
July 31, 2025
Legislation in response to federal threats bans data sharing, shields patients and providers
(BOSTON&mdash;7/31/2025) Today, the Massachusetts Legislature passed a bill known as the healthcare Shield Act 2.0, a bill that will fortify protections for those seeking and providing reproductive and gender-affirming care in the Commonwealth. The bill, S.2543 , which was approved by both the Senate and House chambers on a bipartisan basis, continues the Legislature's track record of ensuring patients are able to make decisions regarding their own health care.
The Shield Act 2.0 protects access to reproductive and transgender healthcare in Massachusetts. It also adds a layer of protection for patients and providers at a time when attacks on reproductive and transgender rights are escalating on multiple fronts, including executive orders from the Trump Administration, federal funding freezes for care providers, a Supreme Court decision ruling against transgender care, and other states' lawsuits against physicians providing reproductive healthcare. It builds off the model legislation of the ROE Act and the original shield legislation enacted in 2022.
&ldquo;Massachusetts will not back down when it comes to protecting our residents and defending our values,&rdquo; stated Senate President Karen E. Spilka (D-Ashland) . &ldquo;Our residents&mdash;indeed all Americans&mdash;deserve the right to make their own health care decisions in consultation with their providers. In Massachusetts, we do not discriminate based on the type of care you seek, and this bill strengthens protections for transgender people and those who have the ability to get pregnant. I applaud Senator Cindy Friedman and the Senate Committee on Steering and Policy for coalescing around this bill at this crucial time as part of the Senate's Response 2025 initiative. I'd also like to thank Senate Judiciary Chair Edwards, Senate Ways and Means Chair Rodrigues, and my Senate colleagues, along with Speaker Mariano and our colleagues in the House, for getting this bill to the Governor's desk.&rdquo;
"As the Trump Administration and Republicans across the country continue to target individuals for exercising their right to make their own health care decisions in consultation with their doctor, this legislation is representative of the Legislature's commitment to preserving that fundamental right,&rdquo; said House Speaker Ronald J. Mariano (D-Quincy) . &ldquo;This Shield Act builds on the Commonwealth's proud history of preserving and expanding access to reproductive and gender-affirming care by establishing new safeguards around patient data, and by protecting health care professionals who provide that vital care. I would like to thank Chair Michlewitz, Chair Day, and all my colleagues in the House, along with Senate President Spilka and our partners in the Senate, for their commitment to protecting the rights of our residents.&rdquo;
&ldquo;The Massachusetts Legislature is once again standing up to defend the rights of Massachusetts residents,&rdquo; said Senator Cindy F. Friedman (D-Arlington), Chair of the Senate Committee on Steering and Policy , the committee tasked with leading the Senate's Response 2025 effort. &ldquo;Now, facing a wave of new threats on our autonomy from the federal government and other states, this legislation will enhance the protections for patients and providers we first put in place in 2022. In the Commonwealth, legally protected health care is just that, and we will always step up to uphold this and fight for our residents.&rdquo;
&ldquo;The federal government has made one thing clear: Massachusetts is on her own when it comes to protecting the privacy and constitutional rights of our residents. Today, we meet this challenge by ensuring that legally protected healthcare decisions made here in the Commonwealth do not become the basis for radical prosecutors in other states to exploit individuals or encourage corporations to profit off our personal data,&rdquo; said Representative Michael S. Day (D-Stoneham), House Chair of the Joint Committee on the Judiciary . &ldquo;The Legislature will always protect our own residents and we will continuously re-affirm the fact that all of our residents have equal protections under our laws and have control over their own healthcare decisions.&rdquo;
Several states have recently passed laws restricting access to reproductive and gender-affirming healthcare while threatening to prosecute individuals who seek those services in Massachusetts. The Shield Act 2.0 prohibits state agencies and law enforcement from cooperating with other states or federal investigations into legally protected reproductive or transgender healthcare provided in Massachusetts. Businesses that manage electronic health information would similarly be limited in sharing patient data connected to these services.
The bill also makes practical updates to protect providers, including: allowing prescriptions to be issued with the name of a healthcare practice rather than an individual practitioner; excluding certain reproductive and gender-affirming medications from the state's drug monitoring programs; and limiting third-party access to related medical records. It also makes clear that healthcare professionals are free to provide legal care services in Massachusetts, and the Commonwealth will resist attempts by other states or the federal government to prosecute healthcare professionals for providing those services.
Additional provisions of the bill include:
Enhancing license protections for anyone providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive or transgender care.
Forbidding insurance companies from discriminating against or penalizing providers who offer reproductive and gender-affirming care.
Protecting attorneys licensed in Massachusetts from removal or discipline for advising or representing clients on the topics of reproductive or transgender care.
Clarifying that Boards of Registration may not take disciplinary actions against practitioners for providing legally protected care and prohibiting boards from noting in a provider's records any criminal, legal or disciplinary actions brought against them in other jurisdictions for providing care that is legally protected in Massachusetts.
Prohibiting courts from admitting or considering cases of abuse, neglect, or maltreatment brought against parents or caregivers because they support their child in seeking reproductive or transgender care.
Mandating that acute care hospitals provide stabilizing health services&mdash;including abortion care when necessary&mdash;to any patient who is injured or seeking emergency treatment, in response to the Trump Administration's rollback of Biden-era guidance on the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) that required hospitals to deliver abortion care in cases of emergency.
Both chambers of the Legislature having voted to enact the Shield Act 2.0, the legislation will now be sent to the Governor for her signature.
Statements of support
Attorney General Andrea Joy Campbell
&ldquo;As reproductive health and gender-affirming care face continuous attacks from the federal government, the Shield Act 2.0 sends a clear message that Massachusetts remains committed to protecting the privacy of our patients and providers. I am incredibly grateful to Senator Friedman and Senator Edwards, Representative Day and Representative Lawn, as well as Senate President Spilka and House Speaker Mariano, for their leadership and partnership on this critical and timely legislation. This bill ensures that personal healthcare decisions are kept where they belong&mdash;between patients, their families, and their medical providers.&rdquo;
Robbie Goldstein, MD, PhD, Commissioner of Public Health
&ldquo;This legislation is grounded in the belief that healthcare must reflect our shared humanity and responsibility to one another. It is about protecting the dignity, safety, and wellbeing of people who are seeking care in a moment of need and who are looking for compassion and support, not stigma, discrimination, or barriers. As a physician, I know the importance of protecting the right to provide, seek, and support care that can save lives while honoring and respecting people for who they are&mdash;fully, authentically, and without judgment. That is the heart of ethical, compassionate health care.&rdquo;
Carol Rose, Executive Director of the ACLU of Massachusetts
&ldquo;Time and again, Massachusetts leaders have stepped up to show that our Commonwealth will do everything in its power to protect access to reproductive and gender-affirming healthcare. Now, in the face of escalating federal attacks on this essential healthcare, this legislation will make a tremendous impact on the lives of so many patients, providers, and families. We deeply thank Senate President Spilka, Speaker Mariano, and Chairs Rodrigues, Michlewitz, Friedman, and Day for championing this critical legislation.&rdquo;
Dominique Lee, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts
&ldquo;The Trump Administration's rampant attacks on Planned Parenthood health centers, on LGBTQ people, especially trans people, and on immigrants make it more urgent that we strengthen protections for reproductive healthcare providers and patients. No one should be afraid to seek care that is safe, legal, and available in Massachusetts. We are grateful to our Legislature for continuing to affirm that reproductive freedom is non-negotiable in Massachusetts. This bill strengthens patient confidentiality, protects healthcare providers, and supports the delivery of evidence-based reproductive health and gender-affirming care.&rdquo;
Polly Crozier, GLAD Law Director of Family Advocacy
&ldquo;In Massachusetts, healthcare policy is based on science and people's need for care. We are grateful to see the Massachusetts Legislature affirm that we will not allow threats or intimidation to jeopardize reproductive care and healthcare for transgender people. This expansion of our 2022 Massachusetts law will more deeply protect patients and providers and increase access and privacy. GLAD Law is pleased to continue working with legislative leaders and other partners to anticipate and protect the people of the Commonwealth in this shifting landscape. Political posturing from the federal government and officials in hostile states should never deny people the healthcare they need.&rdquo;
Rebecca Hart Holder, President of Reproductive Equity Now
&ldquo;Today's agreement between the House and Senate sends a clear and urgent message: Massachusetts will not back down in the face of mounting attacks on abortion access and bodily autonomy. As the Shield Act 2.0 now heads to Governor Healey's desk, our Commonwealth is taking bold, meaningful action to further protect patients, providers, and the fundamental rights of everyone seeking care. At a time when extremists are working to criminalize care and silence providers, Massachusetts is once again stepping up as a national leader. We are deeply grateful to Senate President Spilka, Speaker Mariano, Chair Michlewitz, Chair Friedman, Chair Day, and all our legislative champions who have worked tirelessly to ensure these critical protections become law.&rdquo;
###
&times;
Register for MyLegislature
Register With An Existing Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Register With Your Email Address
Email Address
Password
Confirm Password
Register
Registering...
Already have an account? Sign in here.
Forgot Password?
&times;
Sign in to MyLegislature
Sign In With Your Facebook or Google+ Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Sign In With Your MyLegislature Account
Email*
Password*
Forgot Password?
Sign In
Signing In...
Not Registered? Click here.
Learn More Here! &raquo;
&times;
Forgot Password
Please enter your email address. If there is an account associated with that address, a password reset link will be mailed to you.
Email Address
Reset Password
Processing...
Cancel
&times;
Sign In Required
This feature is exclusive to users of MyLegislature
Sign In
Register
&times;
Search The Legislature
Search the Legislature
Search the Legislature
Search