Skip to Main Content
Need help understanding your rights as an LGBTQ+ person or someone living with HIV? Visit our virtual Help Desk.
Anderson v. Crouch
Status:
Open
Court:
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
Issues:
Health Care, Trans Rights
Clients:
Shauntae Anderson
Attorneys:
Lambda Legal
Tara Borelli
Sasha Buchert
Carl Charles
Nora Huppert
Omar Gonzalez-Pagan
Karen Loewy
Nichols Kaster PLLP
Anna Prakash
Nicole Schladt
The Employment Law Center, PLLC
Walt Auvil
News + Blogs
Press Release
December 9, 2025
Legal Advocates Urge Court to Reaffirm Protections for Transgender Adults’ Healthcare
Press Release
June 30, 2025
Lambda Legal and A4TE Release Statement in Response to Supreme Court’s Orders Remanding Trans Health Care Cases Kadel and Anderson
Press Release
April 29, 2024
Victory! Fourth Circuit Rules North Carolina and West Virginia Can’t Deny Transgender People Coverage for Medical Care
Press Release
September 21, 2023
Lambda Legal and TLDEF Urge Fourth Circuit to Uphold Rulings Protecting Gender-Affirming Care for Transgender People in North Carolina and West Virginia
Press Release
August 2, 2022
Victory! Court Rules for Transgender West Virginia Medicaid Participants Denied Health Care Coverage
Press Release
September 23, 2021
Lambda Legal Adds Two Additional Transgender Plaintiffs to its Challenge to West Virginia’s Unlawful Ban On Health Care Coverage
Lambda Legal filed this class-action lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia on behalf of Shauntae Anderson and other transgender adults enrolled in Medicaid who were denied coverage for gender-affirming surgery. The lawsuit challenges West Virginia’s Medicaid exclusion as a violation of the equal protection guarantee of the Fourteenth Amendment and federal statutory guarantees.
Transgender adults in West Virginia are being denied medically necessary care simply because of who they are. After Lambda Legal won both at the district court and the Fourth Circuit—protecting equal access to care for several years—the U.S. Supreme Court erased that victory and sent the case back to be reviewed again in light of its decision in U.S. v. Skrmetti , which authorized Tennessee and other states to ban gender-affirming care for transgender adolescents in some circumstances. Lambda Legal argued before the Fourth Circuit that Skrmetti does not govern this case; the Fourth Circuit reversed its earlier ruling, finding that West Virginia’s Medicaid program may continue to deny coverage for gender-affirming surgery.
Lambda Legal asked the full Fourth Circuit to review the case, but it declined.
History
November 11, 2020: Lambda Legal files a class-action lawsuit challenging West Virginia&#8217;s Medicaid exclusion for gender-affirming surgery on behalf of transgender Medicaid participants.
August 17, 2022: The d istrict court rules that West Virginia ’s Medicaid exclusion violates the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and federal statut es , protecting transgender adults’ access to care .
August 31, 2022: West Virginia a ppeal s the ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit .
April 29, 2024: The Fourth Circuit affirms the district court’s ruling , finding that denying medically necessary care to transgender adults violates constitutional and statutory rights .
June 30, 2025: The U.S. Supreme Court vacates , or cancels, the Fourth Circuit’s ruling , and re turns the case to that court for further consideration i n light of the Supreme Court’s decision in U.S. v. Skrmetti .
December 9, 2025: Lambda Legal argues before the Fourth Circuit that Skrmetti —which addressed restrictions on care for minors —does not apply to this case involving adults, and urges the court to reaffirm its earlier ruling.
March 10, 2026: The Fourth Circuit reverses its previous decision , allowing West Virginia&#8217;s Medicaid exclusion to stand .
March 24, 2026: Lambda Legal asks the full Fourth Circuit to rehear the case.
May 29, 2026: Request for full Fourth Circuit to hear the case again is denied.
Complaints Amended Motion to File First Amended Complaint (09/23/2021)
Class Action Complaint (11/12/2020)
Decisions Memo Opinion and Order Granting Pls.&#039; MSJ, Denying Defs&#039; MSJ and Denying as Moot Motion to Exclude Levine (08/2/2022)
Memo Opinion and Order Granting Pls.&#039; Motion for Class Certification (08/2/2022)
Memorandum Opinion & Order (05/19/2021)
Opinions Kadel Decision (04/29/2024)
Lambda Legal can’t do this work without your support.
Your gift today keeps Lambda Legal&#039;s lawyers in courtrooms across the country fighting to strike down these morally wrong and legally unconstitutional laws, and we need your support now more than ever.
This link leads off site $25
This link leads off site $50
This link leads off site $125
This link leads off site $500
This link leads off site Other
Thank you for your submission
Thank you for playing a leading role in an organization whose unstoppable future is inseparable from the movement for LGBTQ+ rights and everyone living with HIV!
A member of our team will be in touch with you shortly.
Go back to form page
Close