10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
1
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
SOURCE: The former Chapter 3 was repealed by P.L. 22-130:1
(May 31, 1994) and a new Chapter 3 was added by P.L. 22-130:2
(May 31, 1994) establishing a division of Public Health within the
Department of Public Health and Social Services.
Article 1. Division of Public Health.
Article 2. Vital Statistics.
Article 3. Disease Control.
Article 4. Maternal and Child Health and Children with
Special Health Needs.
Article 5. Maternal and Child Health Services.
Article 6. Services for Children with Special Health Needs.
Article 7. U.S. Public Health Services.
Article 8. Guam Community Health Centers.
Article 9. Guam Early Learning Council.
Article 10. Guam Council on Child Death Review and
Prevention (CCDRP).
ARTICLE 1
DIVISION OF PUBLIC HEALTH
§ 3101. Establishment of Division.
§ 3102. Personnel.
§ 3103. General Duties.
§ 3104. Chief Administrative Officer.
§ 3105. Federal Grants.
§ 3106. Rule-Making.
§ 3107. Authority to Set Fees.
§ 3107.1. Bureau of Health and Nursing Services; Family
Planning Program Fees.
§ 3108. Chief Pharmacists for the Community Health
Centers.
§ 3109. Medical Director; Establishment.
§ 3101. Establishment of Division.
There is hereby established a Division of Public Health (the
Division) in the Department of Public Health and Social Services
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
2
to be administered by the Director of Public Health and Social
Services (the Director). The Division through organized
community effort and applied scientific and technical knowledge
is responsible for working toward the prevention and control of
disease and for promoting health throughout Guam.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3102. Personnel.
The Director is authorized to appoint such personnel to act
on behalf of the Director and fix their duties for the purposes of
carrying out the responsibilities so delegated to the Division.
§ 3103. General Duties.
The general duties of the Division are to:
(a) Formulate plans and policies to address the health
needs of the community.
(b) Implement health programs and services to meet
identified health needs of the community.
(c) Conduct research and studies to identify community
health problems.
(d) Provide health services to individuals who are
medically and financially in need.
(e) Administer grants-in-aid for health programs and
services.
(f) Conduct disease surveillance and monitor activities
to prevent and/or identify health problems.
(g) Conduct health promotion and education programs.
(h) Serve as the “State Public Health Agency” for
Guam.
(i) Establish standards and regulations necessary to
ensure quality health care and the prevention and control of
diseases.
§ 3104. Chief Administrative Officer.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
3
The Chief Public Health Officer shall be the Chief
Administrative Officer of the Division.
§ 3105. Federal Grants.
The Division shall comply with all federal requirements and
procedures necessary for administration of grants-in-aid and
cooperative agreements.
§ 3106. Rule-Making.
The Director shall, in accordance with the Administrative
Adjudication Law, adopt, amend and repeal rules and regulations
necessary to fulfill the duties of the Division.
§ 3107. Authority to Set Fees.
(a) The Director is authorized to establish fees for health
services in accordance with the Administrative Adjudication Law
and as may be required to qualify for grants-in-aid.
(b) Fees established by the Department of Public Health and
Social Services shall not be a deterrent to receiving health care
and shall be based on ability to pay.
§ 3107.1. Bureau of Health and Nursing Services; Family
Planning Program Fees.
(a) The Department of Public Health and Social Services
(DPHSS) Bureau of Family Health and Nursing Services
(BFHNS) shall promulgate the required fee schedule for health
services provided by the Family Planning (FP) Program, in
accordance with the Administrative Adjudication Law, and as
may be required for continuing qualification and compliance for
grants-in-aid federally funded by Title X of the Public Health
Service Act, 42 U.S.C. § 300, et seq., and other funding sources.
The fee schedule shall be based on the current Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services fees, and shall be amended as
necessary to maintain continuing compliance.
(b) Interim Fee Schedule; Adoption. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, rule, or regulation to the contrary, the
promulgated fee schedule of the Regional Community Health
Centers of the Department of Public Health and Social Services
shall be applicable and shall be assessed for health care services
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
4
provided to clients of the FP Program until such time as a fee
schedule has been duly promulgated specifically for the services
provided by the FP Program. In the event there is any difference
between the Regional Community Health Centers fee schedule
and the current fee schedule of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, then the fee schedule of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services shall be utilized.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 33-188:2 (Sept. 26, 2016).
§ 3108. Chief Pharmacists for the Community Health Centers.
The Department of Public Health and Social Services is
authorized to have a Chief Pharmacist for the Northern and
Southern Community Health Centers and a Chief Pharmacist for
the Central Public Health Facility.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 28-068:II:III:29:b (Sept. 30, 2005).
§ 3109. Medical Director; Establishment.
The Director shall appoint one of the classified physician
specialists as Medical Director, to perform collateral
administrative and clinical medical duties for the Department. The
Medical Director should be a physician specialist preferably in a
field of practice or multiple specialties required by the
Department, and an experienced public healthcare services
administrator. The Medical Director shall serve at the pleasure of
the Director and shall, upon the termination of appointment as
Medical Director, remain in the classified position which said
person held prior to appointment as Medical Director. Said person
shall retain all accrued benefits and leave, and shall be entitled to
advancement in pay range and step to which that person is entitled
in the position of physician specialist.
(a) Duties. The duties of the Medical Director may
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the overall
development, management and coordination of
administrative policy and support for clinical medical
services, public healthcare coverage, clinical and nonclinical
communicable disease control, and other clinical or
nonclinical medical services provided by the respective
Bureaus and programs of the Department.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
5
(b) Compensation. The Director of the Department of
Public Health and Social Services is authorized, pursuant to
negotiations, to add an additional incentive bonus to the base
salary of an existing physician specialist who is appointed to
directly perform administrative and clinical collateral duty as
the Medical Director of the Department, up to a maximum
amount not to exceed Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000),
subject to the availability of funds.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 32-185:2 (Oct. 13, 2014).
----------
ARTICLE 2
VITAL STATISTICS
§ 3201. Establishment of Office.
§ 3201.1. Guam Cancer Registry.
§ 3202. Supervision.
§ 3203. Personnel.
§ 3204. Mayors to aid.
§ 3205. Report.
§ 3206. Regulations.
§ 3207. Definitions.
§ 3208. Duties of the Registrar.
§ 3209. Forms of Certificates.
§ 3210. Birth Registration.
§ 3211. Foundling Registration; Infants of Unknown
Parentage.
§ 3212. Delayed Registration.
§ 3213. Judicial Procedure to Establish Facts of Birth.
§ 3214. Court Reports of Adoption.
§ 3215. New Certification of Birth Following Adoption,
Legitimation and Paternity Determination.
§ 3215.1. Certificate of Foreign Birth.
§ 3216. Death Registration.
§ 3217. Fetal Death Registration.
§ 3218. Partial-Birth Abortion and Abortion Report.
§ 3218.1. The Women's Reproductive Health Information Act
of 2012.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
6
§ 3219. Extension of Time.
§ 3220. Marriage Registration.
§ 3221. Court Reports of Divorce and Annulment of
Marriage.
§ 3222. Correction and Amendment of Vital Records.
§ 3223. Reproduction of Records.
§ 3224. Same: Microfilm.
§ 3225. Disclosure of Records.
§ 3226. Copies of Data from Vital Records.
§ 3227. Fees for Copies.
§ 3227.1. Office of Vital Statistics Revolving Fund.
§ 3228. Duty to Furnish Information Relative to Vital Events.
§ 3229. Penalties.
§ 3230. Burial-Transit Permits.
§ 3231. Disposition.
§ 3201. Establishment of Office.
There is hereby established within the Department of Public
Health and Social Services an Office of Vital Statistics which shall
install, maintain and operate the system of vital statistics for
Guam.
§ 3201.1. Guam Cancer Registry.
(a) There is hereby established within the Department of
Public Health and Social Services ('DPHSS') a Guam Cancer
Registry, which shall operate under the supervision of the
Division of Public Health, Office of Epidemiology and Research,
to collect information on all cases of cancer occurring within
Guam, to analyze and compare such data in appropriate ways and
to annually prepare and distribute a report on their findings. The
qualifications of the Guam Epidemiologist shall be:
(1) a Guam physician’s license; or
(2) a MD degree from an American Medical Association
approved medical school with a minimum of two (2) years of
experience in the field of epidemiology; or
(3) a Guam veterinarian’s license with a minimum of
two (2) years of experience in the field of epidemiology; or
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
7
(4) a MPH (epidemiology major) or a graduate degree
in epidemiology or biostatistics, both from a U.S. accredited
college or university and with one (1) to two (2) years of
experience in the field of epidemiology; or
(5) a MSPH degree with a focus in epidemiology or
analysis and assessment from a U.S. accredited college or
university; or
(6) a PhD degree in epidemiology from a U.S.
accredited college or university; or
(7) a graduate degree in epidemiology from a non-U.S.
accredited institution, and with at least four (4) years of
experience designing, overseeing, implementing, and
conducting epidemiological studies related to public health;
or
(8) a non-epidemiology professional graduate degree,
such as a RN, MD/DO, DDS/DMD, DVM, or PhD, from a
U.S. accredited college or university, with at least four (4)
years of experience performing epidemiology work under the
guidance of an epidemiologist.
(b) Injunctions. In case of noncompliance with the provisions
of this Act or with the rules and regulations of the program, the
Director shall notify the respective licensing Board and may also
notify the Attorney General of such noncompliance. The licensing
Board shall notify the healthcare professional and may institute
suspension of license for repeated noncompliance reported by the
Director of DPHSS. The Attorney General, upon receipt of such
notification, may institute an appropriate action or proceeding at
law or in equity to restrain, correct such noncompliance. For all
cases of noncompliance referred to the Attorney General by the
Director of DPHSS, quarterly reports shall be prepared by the
Attorney General and submitted to the Director summarizing the
status of actions taken to correct and comply.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-198:2 (May 6, 1998). Subsection (a)
amended by P.L. 33-082:1 (Nov. 9, 2015).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3202. Supervision.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
8
The Director of Public Health and Social Services (the
Director) has general supervision of vital statistics and is
responsible for the implementation of the provisions of this article.
§ 3203. Personnel.
The Director shall appoint a Guam Registrar of Vital
Statistics, and such other officers and personnel as may be
required to carry out the provisions of this article. Such employees
shall be members of the classified services of the government of
Guam.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3204. Mayors to Aid.
Mayors, under the direction of the President of the Mayors’
Council, shall assist in the implementation of this article and in
doing so shall be governed by this article and by regulation issued
by the Director under the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 3205. Report.
The Director shall make an annual report to the Governor
concerning vital statistics and the enforcement of this article,
which report shall contain a summary on a municipal district basis
of such statistics.
§ 3206. Regulations.
The Director is authorized to adopt, amend and repeal rules
and regulations as may be necessary in his judgment, for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this article. Such rules
and regulations, and any other rules and regulations authorized or
required to be issued under this article, shall be adopted and
promulgated in accordance with the Administrative Adjudication
Law.
§ 3207. Definitions.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following
definitions shall apply to this article:
(a) Vital Statistics means records of birth, death, fetal
death, adoption, marriage, divorce and data related thereto.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
9
(b) System of vital statistics includes the registration,
collection, preservation, amendment and certification of vital
statistics records and activities related thereto, including the
tabulation, analysis and publication of statistical data derived
from such records.
(c) Filing means the presentation of a certificate, report
or other record provided for in this article of a birth, death,
fetal death, adoption,
(d) Registration means the acceptance by the Office of
Vital Statistics and the incorporation in its official records of
certificates, reports or other records provided for in this
article, of births, deaths, fetal deaths, adoptions, llegitimation
marriages or divorces.
(e) Live birth means the complete expulsion or
extraction from its mother of a product of human conception,
irrespective of the duration of pregnancy, which, after such
expulsion or extraction, breathes or shows any other evidence
of life such as beating of umbilical cord [heart] or definite
movement of the voluntary muscles, whether or not the
umbilical cord has been cut or the placenta is attached.
(f) Fetal death means death prior to the complete
expulsion or extraction from its mother of a product of human
conception, irrespective of the duration of pregnancy; the
death is indicated by the fact that after such expulsion or
extraction the fetus does not breathe or show any other
evidence of life such as beating of the heart, pulsation of the
umbilical cord or definite movement of voluntary muscles.
(g) Dead body means a lifeless human body or parts of
such body or bones thereof from the state of which it
reasonably may be concluded that death recently occurred.
(h) Marriage means the legal union between two persons
without regard to gender. The legality of the union may be
established by civil or religious regulations, as recognized by
the laws of Guam.
(i) Divorce or annulment means the final legal
dissolution of a marriage, void or otherwise, that is, the
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
10
separation of spouses by a judicial decree which confers on
the parties the right to remarriage, according to the laws of
Guam.
(j) Physician means a person authorized or licensed to
practice the healing art, pursuant to the laws of Guam.
(k) Attendant at birth means the physician, midwife,
nurse or other person present and assisting in the delivery of
a newborn.
(l) Institution means any establishment, public or
private, which provides in-patient medical, surgical or
diagnostic care or treatment or nursing, custodial or
domiciliary care to two (2) or more unrelated individuals, or
to which persons are committed by law.
(m) Delayed registration of birth means the registration
of a person's non-recorded birth after the sixth (6th) year
following birth.
(n) Abortion means the purposeful termination of a
human pregnancy after implantation of a fertilized ovum, by
any person, including the pregnant woman herself, with the
intention other than to necessarily produce a live birth or to
remove a dead unborn fetus.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subsections (h) and
(i) amended by P.L. 33-065:3 (Aug. 25, 2015).
2013 NOTE: In maintaining the general codification scheme of the GCA
the Compiler changed the hierarchy of subsections beginning with
“Numbers” to “Lowercase Letters.”
§ 3208. Duties of the Registrar.
(a) The Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics shall:
(1) Administer and enforce this article and the rules and
regulations issued hereunder, and issue instructions for the
efficient administration of the Guam system of vital statistics.
(2) Direct and supervise the Guam-wide system of vital
statistics and the Office of Vital Statistics and be custodian
of its records.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
11
(3) Prescribe, with the approval of the Director, and
distribute such forms as are required by this article, and the
rules and regulations issued hereunder.
(4) Prepare and publish annual reports of vital statistics
of Guam, and such other reports as may be required by the
Director.
(5) Prepare, provide, and distribute forms to physicians
as required by §§ 3218 and 3218.1 of this Article.
(6) Ensure the completeness of all forms filed with the
Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics pursuant to §§ 3218 and
3218.1 of this Article.
(7) Reject incomplete forms filed with the Guam
Registrar of Vital Statistics pursuant to §§ 3218 and 3218.1
of this Article.
(8) Give prompt notice to the filer of the rejection of
an incomplete form filed with the Guam Registrar of Vital
Statistics pursuant to §§ 3218 and 3218.1 of this Article that
failure to file a completed form within seven (7) days will be
deemed a failure to file. The notice shall advise the filer of
the penalties for failure to file.
(9) Promptly report to the Attorney General of Guam
any violations of §§ 3218 and 3218.1 of this Article.
(10) Promptly report to the Guam Board of Medical
Examiners any violations of §§ 3218 and 3218.1 of this
Article.
(11) On the first day of each month publish a report of
the activities of § 3218 of this Article.
(b) The Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics may delegate such
functions and duties vested in him to other employees of the
Office of Vital Statistics as he may deem necessary and expedient.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subitems (a)(5)
through (11) added by P.L. 33-218:2 (Dec. 15, 2016).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3209. Forms of Certificates.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
12
(a) In order to promote and maintain uniformity in the system
of vital statistics, the forms of certificates, reports and other
returns required by this article, or by regulations adopted
hereunder, shall include as a minimum the items recommended by
the Federal agency responsible for national vital statistics, subject
to approval of and modification by the Director.
(b) Each certificate, report and form required to be filed
under this article shall have entered upon its face the date of
registration, duly attested.
§ 3210. Birth Registration.
(a) The birth of each and every child born in Guam shall be
registered within ten (10) days after birth, as hereinafter provided.
(b) When a birth occurs in an institution, the person in charge
of the institution shall obtain the personal data, prepare the
certificate and file it with the Office of Vital Statistics. The
physician in attendance shall certify to the facts of birth and
provide all medical information required by the certificate within
five (5) days after the birth.
(c) When a birth occurs outside an institution, the certificate
shall be prepared and filed by one (1) of the following in the
indicated order of priority:
(l) The physician in attendance at or immediately after
the birth, or in the absence of such a person:
(2) The midwife in attendance at or immediately after
the birth, or in the absence of such a person:
(3) Any other person in attendance at or immediately
after the birth, or in the absence of such a person:
(4) The father, the mother, or in the absence of the father
or the inability of the mother, the Mayor of the municipal
district where the birth occurred.
(d) The certificate of live birth for any live birth occurring on
or after forty-five (45) days from the effective date of this section,
as amended, shall contain those items necessary to establish the
fact of the birth and shall contain at least the following information
(if known):
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
13
(1) Full name and sex of newborn child;
(2) Date of birth, including month, day, hour and year;
(3) Planned place of birth and actual place of birth;
(4) Full birth name of father, his social security number,
birthplace, and date of birth of, if the child is legitimate. If
the child is illegitimate, for so long as the child has not been
legitimated, the father’s name on the birth certificate shall be
footnoted as follows: “The above named father is not the
presumptive father of the child and no presumption exists as
to any father-child relationship.”
(5) Full birth name of mother, her social security
number, birthplace, and date of birth.
(6) If multiple birth, the birth order of the newborn
children.
(7) Signature, and relationship to child, of a parent or
other informant, and the date signed.
(8) Name, title, mailing address of attending physician
and surgeon or principal attendant, signature and certification
of live birth by attending physician and surgeon or principal
attendant or certifier, the date signed, and name and title of
certifier of other than attending physician and surgeon or
principal attendant.
(9) Date accepted for registration and signature of
registrar.
(e) Informational notice advising mother of newborn of right
to support and to have birth certificate mailed to father:
distribution. The Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics, the
Department of Law, and the Guam Memorial Hospital Authority
shall cooperatively develop an informational notice which advises
the single mother of a newborn child of her right to child support.
The notice shall also advise the mother of her right to have an
original certificate of birth mailed to the father free of charge.
(f) Legitimation of child. If both the father and mother
acknowledge paternity as herein provided, the child shall
thereupon be legitimized. Forms for such acknowledgment shall
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
14
be available to all hospitals on Guam and shall be made available
at the time of birth to the parents to be filled out at the hospital at
no cost to the parents. The child may be legitimized by both
parents if both sign the birth certificate or the request for issuance
of birth certificate, or if both sign a joint affidavit stating the
names, birthdates, addresses, and social security numbers of the
parents and a statement that they are the natural parents of the
child. The hospital shall advise the parents as to the procedures for
legitimation at the time the child is born.
(g) Affidavit of paternity. When a child is born out of
wedlock, and is not legitimized, and before a birth certificate is
issued, the hospital shall request an affidavit of paternity to be
executed by the mother stating the name of the person who is the
father of the child, his birthdate (if known), his social security
number (if known), his address (if known), and the names and
birthdates of his parents (if known). If the father of the child is
unknown it shall be so stated on the affidavit. The affidavit shall
be kept on file by the Director of Public Health and Social
Services in the Office of Vital Statistics, and shall be available
only to the personnel of Public Health, the Attorney General, the
mother, the named father, attorneys therefor, or pursuant to court
order, which court order may be obtained by any interested person
upon ex parte application to the Superior Court of Guam. If the
mother notes the name of the father upon such affidavit, such
affidavit shall not give rise to any presumption, except it shall
require that the alleged father named therein be given notice of all
proceedings involving the welfare of the child, and may be used
as a basis for requiring a blood test to determine whether the
alleged father is in fact the natural father of the child.
(h) Each hospital shall provide notaries public free of charge
at the hospital for the purpose of notarizing affidavits relating to
paternity, or the affidavits may be executed in conformance with
§ 4308 of Title 6, Guam Code Annotated, as an unsworn
declaration under penalty of perjury and be witnessed by an
employee of the hospital or an employee of the Office of Vital
Statistics not related to either parent.
(i) It shall be the duty of the parent(s) in every case to provide
all information required on the birth certificate and one or the
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
15
other parent shall sign said certificate to attest to the accuracy of
the personal data entered thereon.
(j) Upon request, the Director shall accept, for the purpose of
recording births, certified copies of birth certificates of children
born outside Guam to residents of Guam.
(k) When a birth occurs on a moving conveyance and the
child is first removed from the conveyance in Guam, the birth
shall be registered in Guam and the location where the child is
removed from the conveyance shall be considered as the place of
birth.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3211. Foundling Registration; Infants of Unknown
Parentage.
(a) Whoever assumes custody of a living infant of unknown
parentage shall report on a form and in the manner prescribed by
the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics, within seven (7) days, the
following information:
(l) The date and place of finding the child;
(2) Sex, color or race, and approximate age of the child;
(3) Name and address of the person or institution with
whom the child has been placed for care;
(4) Name given to the child by the custodian; and
(5) Other data as may be required by the Guam Registrar
of Vital Statistics.
(b) The place where the child was found shall be entered as
the place of birth, and the date of birth shall be determined by
approximation.
(c) A report registered under this Section shall constitute the
certificate of birth for the infant.
(d) If the child is identified and a certificate of birth is found
or obtained, any report registered under this Section shall be
sealed and filed and may be opened only by order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
16
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3212. Delayed Registration.
(a) Birth:
(1) When a birth of a person either born in Guam, or
who is a non-U.S. citizen born in a foreign country and
adopted by a resident of Guam has not been registered, a
certificate may be filed in accordance with the regulations of
the Office of Vital Statistics. Such certificate shall be
registered subject to such evidentiary requirements as the
Office of Vital Statistics shall by regulation prescribe to
substantiate the alleged facts of birth.
(2) certificates of birth registered seven (7) years or
more after the date of occurrence shall be marked “Delayed”
and show on their face the date of delayed registration.
(3) In all instances of delayed birth registration, the
following facts concerning the person whose birth is to be
registered are required and must be established: Date of birth;
place of birth; and parentage.
(4) When an applicant does not submit the minimum
documentation required in the regulation for delayed
registration, or when the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics
finds reason to question the validity or adequacy of the
certificate or the documentary evidence, the Guam Registrar
shall not register the delayed certificate and shall advise the
applicant of the reasons for this action.
(5) If the person whose birth is to be recorded be a child
under the age of eighteen (18) years, the birth certificate shall
be signed by one of the following in the indicated order of
priority:
(A) The attendant at birth;
(B) By either parent or adoptive parent;
(C) By the child's guardian; or
(D) By relatives in the next immediate degree of
kindred; provided, that each person signing a certificate
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
17
shall attest under oath to his belief in the truth of the
statements made concerning the age, birthplace, and
parentage of the person whose birth is being recorded.
(6) If the person whose birth is to be recorded be of legal
age, the date of birth and place of birth shall be supported by
at least two (2) documents of which only one (1) may be an
affidavit; the facts of parentage must be supported by at least
one (1) document which may be one (1) of the two (2)
submitted as evidence of the other facts.
(b) Death and marriage:
(1) When a death or marriage in Guam has not been
registered, a certificate may be filed in accordance with
regulations of the Office of Vital Statistics. Such certificate
shall be registered subject to such evidentiary requirements
as the Office shall by regulation prescribe to substantiate the
alleged facts of death or marriage.
(2) Certificates of death and marriage registered one (1)
year or more after the date of occurrence shall be marked
“Delayed” and shall show on their face the date of the
delayed registration.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subsection (a)
amended by P.L. 28-031:2 (April 22, 2005).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3213. Judicial Procedure to Establish Facts of Birth.
(a) If a delayed certificate of birth is rejected under the
provisions of § 3212 of this Article, a petition may be filed with
the Superior Court of Guam for an order establishing a record of
the date and place of birth and the parentage of the person whose
birth is to be registered.
(b) Such petition shall allege:
(l) That the person for whom delayed certificate of birth
is sought was born in Guam, or is a non-U.S. citizen born in
a foreign country and adopted by a resident of Guam;
(2) That no record of birth can be found in the Office of
Vital Statistics;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
18
(3) That diligent efforts by the petitioner have failed to
obtain the evidence required in accordance with § 3212 of
this Article;
(4) That the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics has
refused to register a delayed certificate of birth; and
(5) Such other allegations as may be required.
(c) The petition shall be accompanied by a statement of the
registration official made in accordance with Subsection (a)(4) of
said § 3212 and all documentary evidence which was submitted to
the registration official in support of such registration. The
petition shall be sworn to by the petitioner.
(d) The court shall fix a time and place for hearing the
petition and shall give the registration official who refused to
register the petitioner’s delayed certificate of birth five (5) days’
notice of said hearing. Such official or his authorized
representative, may appear and testify in the proceedings.
(e) If the court from the evidence presented finds that the
person for whom a delayed certificate of birth is sought was born
in Guam, or is a non-U.S. citizen born in a foreign country and
adopted by a resident of Guam, it shall make findings as to place
and date of birth, parentage and such other findings as the case
may require, and shall issue an order on a form prescribed and
furnished by the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics to establish a
record of birth. This order shall include the birth data to be
registered, a description of the evidence presented in the manner
prescribed by said § 3212, and the date of the court’s action.
(f) The Clerk of the Superior Court shall forward each such
order to the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics not later than the
tenth (l0th) day of the calendar month following the month in
which it was entered. Such order shall be registered by the Guam
Registrar of Vital Statistics and shall constitute the record of birth,
from which copies may be issued in accordance with § 3226 of
this Article.
(g) Any person who objects to the accuracy of any of the
information on a certificate of birth may petition the Superior
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
19
Court to correct the certificate, using the same procedures as for
obtaining a change of name.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Amended by P.L.
28-031:3 (April 22, 2005).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3214. Court Reports of Adoption.
(a) For each adoption decreed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the court shall require the preparation of a certificate
of adoption on a form prescribed and furnished by the Guam
Registrar of Vital Statistics. The certificate shall include such facts
as are necessary to locate and identify the certificate of birth of the
person adopted; provide information necessary to establish a new
certificate of birth of the person adopted, and shall identify the
order of adoption and be certified by the clerk of court. For a
person born in a foreign country who is not a citizen of the United
States, and for whom a final order of adoption has been decreed
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the court shall require the
preparation of a certificate of foreign birth as provided in § 3215.1.
(b) The certificate of adoption shall be filed with the original
record of birth, if such record exists, which shall remain as a part
of the permanent records of the Office of Vital Statistics.
(c) Whenever an adoption decree is amended or annulled, the
clerk of the court shall prepare a certificate thereof, which shall
include such facts as are necessary to identify the original
adoption report, and the facts amended in the adoption decree as
shall be necessary to properly amend the birth record.
(d) When the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics receives a
record of adoption or annulment of adoption or amendment
thereof from a court for a person born elsewhere, such record shall
be forwarded to the appropriate registration authority in the place
of birth of the child adopted.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subsection (a)
amended by P.L. 28-031:4 (April 22, 2005).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
20
2014 NOTE: Subsection (a)(1) added by P.L. 28-031:4, incorporated into
subsection (a) by the Compiler in accordance with the authority granted by
1 GCA § 1606.
§ 3215. New Certification of Birth Following Adoption,
Legitimation and Paternity Determination.
(a) The Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics shall establish a
new certificate of birth for a person when he or she receives one
(1) of the following:
(1) An adoption report as provided in § 3214 of this
Article, or a certified copy of the decree of adoption, together
with the information necessary to identify the original
certificate of birth and to establish a new certificate of birth;
(except that a new certificate of birth shall not be established
if so requested by the court decreeing the adoption, the
adoptive parents or the adopted person);
(2) An affidavit of acknowledgment of paternity signed
by both parents; or
(3) A court order determining paternity.
(b) When a new certificate of birth is established, the actual
place and date of birth shall be shown. It shall be substituted for
the original certificate of birth, and thereafter,
(l) The original certificate and the evidence of adoption,
paternity or legitimation shall not be subject to inspection,
except upon court order or as provided by regulations.
(2) Upon receipt of notice of annulment of adoption, the
original certificate of birth shall be restored to its place in the
files and the new certificate and evidence shall not be subject
to inspection, except upon court order.
(c) If no certificate of birth is on file for the person for whom
a new certificate is to be established under this section, a delayed
certificate of birth shall be filed with the Office of Vital Statistics
as provided in §§ 3212 or 3213 of this article. Before a new
certificate of birth is established, except that when the date and
place of birth and parentage have been established in the adoption
proceeding, a delayed certificate shall not be required.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
21
(d) When a new certificate of birth is established by the
Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics, all copies of the original
certificate of birth in the custody of the Office of Vital Statistics,
will be sealed from inspection and opened only upon court order
or as provided by regulation.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subsection (a)
amended by P.L. 28-031:5 (April 22, 2005).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3215.1. Certificate of Foreign Birth.
The Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics shall, upon request,
establish a new certificate of birth for a person born in a foreign
country when in receipt of a report of adoption decreed by a court
of competent jurisdiction, proof of the date and place of the
person’s birth, and a request from the court, the adopting parent
or parents, or the adopted person if eighteen (18) years of age or
over, that such a certificate be prepared. The certificate shall be
labeled ‘Certificate of Foreign Birth’ and shall show the actual
country of birth. The Certificate of Foreign Birth shall show the
true or probable foreign country of birth, and shall state that the
certificate is not evidence of United States citizenship for the child
for whom it is issued or for the adoptive parent or parents. After
registration of the Certificate of Foreign Birth in the new name of
the adopted person, the Guam Registrar shall seal the report of
adoption, which shall not be subject to inspection except upon
order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 28-031:6 (April 22, 2005).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
2014 NOTE: Subsection designation removed to adheare to the
Compiler’s general codification scheme in accordance with the authority
granted by 1 GCA § 1606.
§ 3216. Death Registration.
(a) A death certificate for each death which occurs on Guam
shall be filed with the Office of Vital Statistics.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
22
(b) The Mayor, upon receiving information of any death
within his municipal district, shall report the same immediately to
the Office of Vital Statistics, on a prescribed form; provided, that:
(1) If the place of death is unknown, a death report shall
be filed by the Mayor of the municipal district in which a
dead body is found and the place where the body is found
shall be shown as the place of death; provided, further
(2) That if death occurs in a moving conveyance, a death
report shall be filed by the Mayor of the municipal district in
which the dead body was first removed from such
conveyance and the location where the body is removed from
the conveyance shall be shown as the place of death or if
taken to an institution, the death certificate shall be filed by
the person in charge of that institution.
(c) Death in an institution shall be reported to the Office of
Vital Statistics by the person in charge of that institution.
(d) Any person who first assumes custody of a dead human
body shall report same and file a death certificate with the Office
of Vital Statistics. He shall obtain the personal data from the next
of kin or the best qualified person or source available and shall
obtain the medical certification of cause of death from the person
responsible therefor.
(e) The medical certification shall be completed and signed
within twenty-four (24) hours after death by a registered nurse
pursuant to 10 GCA § 12332; or by the physician in charge of the
patient’s care for the illness or condition which resulted in death,
except when the patient has received no medical attention within
seventy-two (72) hours prior to death, or when inquiry is required
in accordance with the Post-Mortem Examination Act (10 GCA
Chapter 81).
(f) When death occurred without medical attendance as set
forth in paragraph (e) of this section, or when inquiry is required
by the Post-Mortem Examination Act, the Medical Examiner or
his duly authorized representative shall investigate the cause of
death and shall complete and sign the medical certification within
twenty-four (24) hours after taking charge of the case.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
23
(g) Upon request, the Director shall accept, for purposes of
recording deaths, certified copies of death certificates of residents
of Guam who died outside Guam.
(h) When a death is presumed to have occurred within Guam
but the body cannot be located, a death certificate may be prepared
by the Guam Registrar upon receipt of an order from a court of
competent jurisdiction, which shall include the finding of facts
required to complete the death certificate. Such a death certificate
shall be marked “presumptive” and shall show on its face the date
of registration and shall identify the court and date of decree.
(i) The death certificate of a person shall contain the social
security number of the deceased; if none exists, the certificate
shall also state that fact.
(j) When a death is presumed to have occurred in and around
the waters of Guam and the body cannot be located, after an
official search and rescue attempt has been made by the Guam
Fire Department Search and Rescue Unit or the U.S. Coast Guard,
a death certificate may be prepared by the Guam Registrar upon
receipt of an order from a court of competent jurisdiction, or the
Medical Examiner, which shall include the finding of facts
required to complete the death certificate. Such a death certificate
shall be marked ‘presumptive’ and shall show on its face the date
of registration and shall identify the court, or the Medical
Examiner, and the date of decree.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subsection (i) added
by P.L. 24-129:30 (Feb. 16, 1998). Subsection (j) added as subsection (i)
by P.L. 24-320:1 (Dec. 28, 1998). Renumbered by Compiler since
subsection (i) already exists.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3217. Fetal Death Registration.
(a) A fetal death report for each fetal death which occurs in
Guam after twenty (20) complete weeks of gestation or more or
when a fetus weighs three hundred fifty (350) grams or more, shall
be filed with the Office of Vital Statistics within twenty-four (24)
hours after such delivery and prior to the removal of the
disposition of said fetus; provided, that:
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
24
(l) If the place of fetal death is unknown, a fetal death
certificate shall be filed by the Mayor of the municipal
district in which the dead fetus was found; or
(2) If a fetal death occurs in a moving conveyance, a
fetal death report shall be filed by the Mayor of the municipal
district in which the dead fetus was first removed or if to an
institution, the fetal death report shall be filed by the person
in charge of that institution.
(b) Any physician, midwife or other person in attendance at
or after the delivery of a dead fetus shall file a fetal death report.
He shall obtain the personal data from the next of kin or the best
qualified person or source available.
(c) The medical certification shall be completed and signed
within twenty-four (24) hours after delivery by the physician in
attendance at or after delivery, except when inquiry is required by
the Post-Mortem Examination Act.
(d) When a fetal death occurs without medical attendance
upon the mother at or after deliver, or when inquiry is required by
the Post-Mortem Examination Act, the Medical Examiner shall
investigate the cause of fetal death, and shall complete and sign
the medical certification within twenty-four (24) hours after
taking charge of the case.
§ 3218. Partial-Birth Abortion and Abortion Report.
(a) An individual abortion report for each abortion shall be
completed by the mother's attending physician, and shall be
transmitted directly to the Office of Vital Statistics of the
Department of Public Health and Social Services. The report shall
be confidential and it shall not contain the name of the mother
involved. This report shall include:
(1) patient number;
(2) name and address of the abortion facility or
hospital;
(3) date of the abortion;
(4) zip code or other residential identification of the
pregnant woman;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
25
(5) age of the pregnant woman;
(6) ethnic origin of the pregnant woman;
(7) marital status of the pregnant woman;
(8) number of previous pregnancies;
(9) number of years of education of the pregnant
woman;
(10) number of living children;
(11) number of previous induced abortions;
(12) date of the last induced abortion;
(13) date of the last live birth;
(14) method of contraception used, if any, at the time of
conception;
(15) date of the beginning of the last menstrual period;
(16) medical condition of the pregnant woman at the
time of abortion;
(17) RH type of the pregnant woman;
(18) type of abortion procedure used;
(19) complications, if any;
(20) type of procedure done after the abortion;
(21) type of family planning recommended;
(22) type of additional counseling given, if any;
(23) signature of attending physician;
(24) certification provided for in this Section; and
(25) gestational age, as measured in weeks, of the
unborn child terminated by the abortion.
(b) An individual complication report for any post-abortion
care performed upon a woman shall be completed by the
physician providing such post-abortion care. This report shall
include:
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
26
(1) date of the abortion;
(2) name and the address of the medical facility,
abortion facility or hospital where the abortion was
performed; and
(3) nature of the abortion complication diagnosed or
treated.
(c) All abortion reports shall be signed by the attending
physician under penalty of perjury and shall be filed with the
Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics within seven (7) days from the
date of the abortion. All complication reports shall be signed by
the physician providing the post-abortion care under penalty of
perjury and filed with the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics within
seven (7) days from the date of the post-abortion care.
(d) A copy of the abortion report shall be made a part of the
medical record of the patient in the facility or hospital in which
the abortion was performed.
(e) The Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics shall collect and
annually publish a statistical report based on such data from
abortions performed in the previous calendar year.
(f) The Office of Vital Statistics shall make available to
physicians performing abortions on Guam, forms for both
abortion reports and post-abortion care reports, as provided in
Subsections (a) and (b) of this Section.
(g) All information in abortion reports and post-abortion
care reports and the reports themselves shall be confidential.
Information and records may be disclosed only in communications
between qualified professional persons in the provision of services
or in statistical form for research purposes as required by
Subsection (e) of this Section.
(h) Any person who releases confidential information in
violation of Subsection (g) of this Section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(i) Any person may bring an action against an individual
who has willfully and knowingly released confidential
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
27
information about such person in violation of Subsection (g) of
this Section for the greater of the following amounts:
(1) Five Hundred Dollars ($500); or
(2) Three (3) times the amount of actual damages, if
any, sustained by the plaintiff, reasonable attorney's fees and
the costs of the action. It is not a prerequisite to an action
under this Subsection that the plaintiff suffer or be threatened
with actual damages.
(j) If a physician performs a partial-birth abortion on the
woman, the physician shall report such determination and the
reasons for such determination in writing to the medical care
facility in which the abortion is performed for inclusion in the
report of the medical care facility to the Office of Vital Statistics
and to the Guam Board of Medical Examiners, or if the abortion
is not performed in a medical care facility, the physician shall
report the reasons for such determination in writing to the Office
of Vital Statistics and to the Guam Board of Medical Examiners
as part of the written report made by the physician to the Office of
Vital Statistics and to the Guam Board of Medical Examiners.
The physician shall retain a copy of the written reports required
under this Section for not less than five (5) years.
(k) Failure to file a complete individual abortion report for
each abortion with the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics within
seven (7) days from the date of the abortion is a misdemeanor,
pursuant to § 55.65 of Chapter 55, Title 9, Guam Code Annotated.
(l) Subsection (k) does not preclude sanctions, or
disciplinary action, or any other appropriate action by the Guam
Board of Medical Examiners.
(m) The Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics shall receive,
ascertain the completeness of, compile, and retain all partial-birth
abortion reports filed with her under this Section, and collate and
evaluate all data gathered therefrom, and shall annually publish a
statistical report based on such data from partial-birth abortions
performed in the previous calendar year no later than January 31st
of the following calendar year.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
28
(n) The Office of Vital Statistics shall make available to
physicians performing partial-birth abortions on Guam and the
Guam Board of Medical Examiners forms for partial-birth
abortion reports.
(o) All information in partial-birth abortion reports the
Office of Vital Statistics receives shall be confidential.
Information and reports may be disclosed only in communications
between qualified professional persons in the provisions of
services, or in statistical form for research purposes.
(p) Any person who releases confidential information in
violation of Subsection (o) of this Section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Amended by P.L.
29-115:1 (Nov. 18, 2008), P.L. 32-073:3 (Nov. 27, 2013). Subsections (j-
p) added by P.L. 29-115:2 (Nov. 18, 2008). Subsections (a)(23) and (24)
amended by P.L. 32-217:2 (Dec. 29, 2014, and subsection (a)(25) added
by P.L. 32-217:2 (Dec. 29, 2014), effective 30 days after enactment
pursuant to P.L. 32-217:3. Subsection (a) amended by P.L. 33-218:3 (Dec.
15, 2016); subsection (c) amended by P.L. 33-218:4 (Dec. 15, 2016);
subsection (e) amended by P.L. 33-218:5 (Dec. 15, 2016); and subsection
(k) amended by P.L. 33-218:6 (Dec. 15, 2016); and subsection (m)
amended by P.L. 33-218:7 (Dec. 15, 2016);.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
NOTE: This provision was to become effective sixty (60) days after the
“printed materials” described in § 3218.1 (c) and the “checklist
certification” described in § 3218.1(c)(5) were approved by the
Department of Public Health and Social Services (DPHSS) pursuant to the
rule-making process set forth in Title 5, Chapter 9, Article 3 of the Guam
Code Annotated. P.L. 31-235:4 (Nov. 1, 2012). P.L. 32-089:2 (Nov. 27,
2013) amended the approving authority from DPHSS to “a majority vote
of a team consisting of the Director of DPHSS, who shall serve as the
Chairperson, the Medical Director of the DPHSS; and OB/GYN doctor
from the Guam Medical Association; a Social Worker from the National
Association of Social Workers; and a Psychiatrist from the Guam
Behavioral Health and Wellness Center.” The “printed materials”
described in § 3218.1 (c) and the “checklist certification” described in §
3218.1(c)(5) were to be approved no later than 120 days after enactment,
pursuant to P.L. 32-089:2.
§ 3218.1. The Women's Reproductive Health Information Act
of 2012.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
29
(a) Definitions. For the purposes of this § 3218.1, the
following words and phrases are defined to mean:
(1) Abortion means the use or prescription of any
instrument, medicine, drug, or other substance or device to
terminate the pregnancy of a woman known to be pregnant
with an intention other than to increase the probability of a
live birth, to preserve the life or health of the child after live
birth, to act upon an ectopic pregnancy, or to remove a dead
unborn child who died as the result of natural causes in utero,
accidental trauma, or a criminal assault on a pregnant woman
or her unborn child, and which causes the premature
termination of the pregnancy;
(2) Act means the Women's Reproductive Health
Information Act of 2012 codified at Title 10 GCA § 3218.1;
(3) Complication means that condition which includes
but is not limited to hemorrhage, infection, uterine
perforation, cervical laceration, pelvic inflammatory disease,
endometriosis, and retained products. The Department may
further define the term “complication” as necessary and in a
manner not inconsistent with this § 3218.1;
(4) Conception means the fusion of a human
spermatozoon with a human ovum;
(5) Department means the Department of Public Health
and Social Services;
(6) Facility or medical facility means any public or
private hospital, clinic, center, medical school, medical
training institution, health care facility, physician's office,
infirmary, dispensary, ambulatory surgical treatment center,
or other institution or location wherein medical care is
provided to any person;
(7) First trimester means the first twelve (12) weeks of
gestation;
(8) Gestational age means the time that has elapsed since
the first day of the woman's last occurring menstruation;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
30
(9) Hospital means any building, structure, institution or
place, public or private, whether organized for profit or not,
devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of
facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and provision of
medical or surgical care for three (3) or more non-related
individuals, admitted for overnight stay or longer in order to
obtain medical, including obstetric, psychiatric and nursing
care of illness, disease, injury or deformity, whether physical
or mental and regularly making available at least clinical
laboratory services and diagnostic x-ray services and
treatment facilities for surgery or obstetrical care or other
definitive medical treatment;
(10) Medical emergency means a condition which, in
reasonable medical judgment, so complicates the medical
condition of the pregnant woman as to necessitate the
immediate termination of her pregnancy to avert her death or
for which a delay will create a serious risk of substantial and
irreversible physical impairment of a major bodily function.
No condition shall be deemed a medical emergency if based
on a claim or diagnosis that the woman will engage in
conduct which would result in her death or in substantial and
irreversible physical impairment of a major bodily function;
(11) Physician means any person licensed to practice
medicine or surgery or osteopathic medicine under the
Physicians Practice Act (Title 10 GCA § 12201, et seq.) or in
another jurisdiction of the United States;
(12) Pregnant or pregnancy means that female
reproductive condition of having an unborn child in the
mother's uterus;
(13) Qualified person means an agent of a physician
who is a psychologist, licensed social worker, licensed
professional counselor, registered nurse, or physician;
(14) Records Section means the Guam Memorial
Hospital Medical Records Section;
(15) Unborn child or fetus each means an individual
organism of the species homo sapiens from conception until
live birth;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
31
(16) Viability means the state of fetal development
when, in the reasonable judgment of a physician based on the
particular facts of the case before him or her and in light of
the most advanced medical technology and information
available to him or her, there is a reasonable likelihood of
sustained survival of the unborn child outside the body of his
or her mother, with or without artificial support; and
(17) Woman means a female human being whether or
not she has reached the age of majority.
(b) Informed Consent Requirement. No abortion shall be
performed or induced without the voluntary and informed consent
of the woman upon whom the abortion is to be performed or
induced. Except in the case of a medical emergency, consent to an
abortion is voluntary and informed if and only if:
(1) at least twenty-four (24) hours before the abortion,
the physician who is to perform the abortion or a qualified
person has informed the woman in person of the following:
(A) the name of the physician who will perform the
abortion;
(B) the following medically accurate information
that a reasonable person would consider material to the
decision of whether or not to undergo the abortion:
(i) a description of the proposed abortion
method and
(ii) the immediate and long-term medical risks
associated with the proposed abortion method,
including but not limited to any risks of infection,
hemorrhage, cervical or uterine perforation, and
any potential effect upon future capability to
conceive as well as to sustain a pregnancy to full
term;
(C) the probable gestational age of the unborn child
at the time the abortion is to be performed;
(D) the probable anatomical and physiological
characteristics of the unborn child at the time the
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
32
abortion is to be performed;
(E) the medical risks associated with carrying the
child to term;
(F) any need for anti-Rh immune globulin therapy
if she is Rh negative, the likely consequences of refusing
such therapy, and the cost of the therapy;
(2) at least twenty-four (24) hours before the abortion,
the physician who is to perform the abortion or a qualified
person has informed the woman in person, that:
(A) medical assistance benefits may be available
for prenatal care, childbirth, and neonatal care and that
more detailed information on the availability of such
assistance is contained in the printed materials given to
her and described in Subsection (c) of this § 3218.1;
(B) public assistance may be available to provide
medical insurance and other support for her child while
he or she is a dependent and that more detailed
information on the availability of such assistance is
contained in the printed materials given to her and
described in Subsection (c) of this § 3218.1;
(C) public services exist which will help to
facilitate the adoption of her child and that more detailed
information on the availability of such services is
contained in the printed materials given to her and
described in Subsection (c) of this § 3218.1;
(D) the printed materials in Subsection (c) of this
Section 3218.1 describe the unborn child;
(E) the father of the unborn child is liable to assist
in the support of this child, even in instances where he
has offered to pay for the abortion. In the case of rape or
incest, this information may be omitted; and
(F) she is free to withhold or withdraw her consent
to the abortion at any time without affecting her right to
future care or treatment and without the loss of any
locally or federally funded benefits to which she might
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
33
otherwise be entitled.
(3) At least twenty-four (24) hours before the abortion,
the physician who is to perform the abortion or a qualified
person has given the woman a copy of the printed materials
described in Subsection (c) of this § 3218.1. If the woman is
unable to read the materials, they shall be read to her. If the
woman asks questions concerning any of the information or
materials, answers shall be provided to her in a language she
can understand.
(4) The information in Subsections (b)(l), (b)(2) and
(b)(3) of this § 3218.1 is provided to the woman individually
and in a private room to protect her privacy and maintain the
confidentiality of her decision and to ensure that the
information focuses on her individual circumstances and that
she has an adequate opportunity to ask questions.
(5) Prior to the abortion, the woman certifies in writing
on a checklist certification provided by the Department that
the information required to be provided under Subsections
(b)(l), (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this § 3218.1 has been provided.
All physicians who perform abortions shall report the total
number of certifications received monthly to the Records
Section. The Records Section shall make the number of
certifications received available to the public on an annual
basis.
(6) Except in the case of a medical emergency, the
physician who is to perform the abortion shall receive and
sign a copy of the written checklist certification prescribed in
Subsection (b)(5) of this § 3218.1 prior to performing the
abortion. The physician shall retain a copy of the checklist
certification in the woman's medical record.
(7) In the event of a medical emergency requiring an
immediate termination of the pregnancy, the physician who
performed the abortion shall clearly certify in writing the
nature of the medical emergency and the circumstances
which necessitated the waiving of the informed consent
requirements of this § 3218.1. This certification shall be
signed by the physician who performed the emergency
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
34
termination of pregnancy, and shall be permanently filed in
both the patient records maintained by the physician
performing the emergency procedure and the records
maintained by the facility where the emergency procedure
occurred.
(8) A physician shall not require or obtain payment from
anyone for providing the information and certification
required by this § 3218.1 until the expiration of the twenty-
four (24) hour reflection period required by this § 3218.1.
(c) Publication of Materials. The Department shall cause to
be published printed materials in English and any other culturally
sensitive languages which the Department deems appropriate
within one hundred eighty (180) days after this Act becomes law.
The printed materials shall be printed in a typeface large enough
to be clearly legible and shall be presented in an objective,
unbiased manner designed to convey only accurate scientific
information. On an annual basis, the Department shall review and
update, if necessary, the following easily comprehensible printed
materials:
(1) Printed materials that inform the woman of any
entities available to assist a woman through pregnancy, upon
childbirth and while her child is dependent, including but not
limited to adoption services.
The printed materials shall include a list of the entities,
a description of the services they offer, and the telephone
numbers of the entities, and shall inform the woman about
available medical assistance benefits for prenatal care,
childbirth, and neonatal care. The Department shall ensure
that the materials described in this § 3218.1 are
comprehensive and do not directly or indirectly promote,
exclude, or discourage the use of any entity described in this
§ 3218.1.
These printed materials shall state that it is unlawful for
any individual to coerce a woman to undergo an abortion.
The printed materials shall also state that any physician who
performs an abortion upon a woman without her informed
consent may be liable to her for damages in a civil action and
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
35
that the law permits adoptive parents to pay costs of prenatal
care, childbirth, and neonatal care. The printed materials
shall include the following statement:
“The Territory of Guam strongly urges you to
contact the resources provided in this booklet
before making a final decision about abortion. The
law requires that your physician or his or her agent
give you the opportunity to call agencies and
service providers like these before you undergo an
abortion.”
(2) Printed materials that include information on the
support obligations of the father of a child who is born alive,
including but not limited to the father's legal duty to support
his child, which may include child support payments and
health insurance, and the fact that paternity may be
established by written declaration of paternity or by court
action. The printed material shall also state that more
information concerning paternity establishment and child
support services and enforcement may be obtained by calling
the Office of the Attorney General of Guam, Child Support
Enforcement Division.
(3) Printed materials that inform the pregnant woman of
the probable anatomical and physiological characteristics of
an unborn child at two (2) - week gestational increments from
fertilization to full term, including color photographs of the
developing unborn child at two (2) - week gestational
increments. The descriptions shall include information about
brain and heart functions, the presence of external members
and internal organs during the applicable stages of
development, and any relevant information on the possibility
of the child's survival at several and equidistant increments
throughout a full term pregnancy. If a photograph is not
available, a picture must contain the dimensions of the
unborn child and must be anatomically accurate and realistic.
The materials shall be objective, nonjudgmental, and
designed to convey only accurate scientific information
about the unborn child at the various gestational ages.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
36
(4) Printed materials which contain objective
information describing the various surgical and drug-induced
methods of abortion, as well as the immediate and long-term
medical risks commonly associated with each abortion
method including but not limited to the risks of infection,
hemorrhage, cervical or uterine perforation or rupture, any
potential effect upon future capability to conceive as well as
to sustain a pregnancy to full term, the possible adverse
psychological effects associated with an abortion, and the
medical risks associated with carrying a child to term.
(5) A checklist certification to be used by the physician
or a qualified person under Subsection (b)(5) of this § 3218.1,
which will list all the items of information which are to be
given to the woman by the physician or a qualified person
under this § 3218.1.
(d) Cost of Materials. The Department shall make available
the materials enumerated in Subsection (c) of this § 3218.1 for
purchase by the physician or qualified person who is required to
provide these materials to women pursuant to Subsection (b)(3) of
this § 3218.1 at such cost as reasonably determined by the
Department. No claim of inability to pay the cost charged by the
Department for these materials will excuse any party from
complying with the requirements set forth in this § 3218.1.
(e) Emergencies. When a medical emergency compels the
performance of an abortion or termination of pregnancy, the
physician shall inform the woman, before the abortion if possible,
of the medical indications supporting the physician's judgment
that an immediate abortion or termination of pregnancy is
necessary to avert her death or that a twenty-four (24) hour delay
would cause substantial and irreversible impairment of a major
bodily function.
(f) Criminal Penalties. Any person who intentionally,
knowingly, or recklessly violates this Act is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(g) Civil and Administrative Claims. In addition to whatever
remedies are available under the common law or statutory laws of
Guam, failure to comply with the requirements of this Act shall:
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
37
(1) in the case of an intentional violation of the Act,
constitute prima facie evidence of a failure to obtain
informed consent. When requested, the court shall allow a
woman upon whom an abortion was performed or attempted
to be performed allegedly in violation of this Act to be
identified in any action brought pursuant to this Act using
solely her initials or the pseudonym “Jane Doe.” Further,
with or without a request, the court may close any
proceedings in the case from public attendance, and the court
may enter other protective orders in its discretion to preserve
the privacy of the woman upon whom the abortion was
performed or attempted to be performed allegedly in
violation of this Act.
(2) Provide a basis for professional disciplinary action
under 10 GCA § 11110.
(3) Provide a basis for recovery for the woman for the
wrongful death of her unborn child under Title 7 GCA §
12109, whether or not the unborn child was born alive or was
viable at the time the abortion was performed.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 31-235:2 (Nov. 1, 2012).
2013 NOTE: This provision was to become effective sixty (60) days after
the “printed materials” described in § 3218.1 (c) and the “checklist
certification” described in § 3218.1(c)(5) were approved by the
Department of Public Health and Social Services (DPHSS) pursuant to the
rule-making process set forth in Title 5, Chapter 9, Article 3 of the Guam
Code Annotated. P.L. 31-235:4 (Nov. 1, 2012). P.L. 32-089:2 (Nov. 27,
2013) amended the approving authority from DPHSS to “a majority vote
of a team consisting of the Director of DPHSS, who shall serve as the
Chairperson, the Medical Director of the DPHSS; and OB/GYN doctor
from the Guam Medical Association; a Social Worker from the National
Association of Social Workers; and a Psychiatrist from the Guam
Behavioral Health and Wellness Center.” The “printed materials”
described in § 3218.1 (c) and the “checklist certification” described in §
3218.1(c)(5) were to be approved no later than 120 days after enactment,
pursuant to P.L. 32-089:2.
2012 NOTE: Subsection designations in subsection (b) were altered to
adhere to the Compiler’s alpha-numeric scheme in accordance with the
authority granted by 1 GCA § 1606.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
38
§ 3219. Extension of Time.
The Office of Vital Statistics may, by regulation, and upon
such conditions as it may prescribe to assure compliance with the
purposes of this article, provide for the extension of the periods
prescribed in §§ 3216 and 3217 of this article for the filing of death
certificates, fetal death reports and medical certifications of cause
of death in cases in which compliance with the applicable
prescribed period would result in undue hardship.
§ 3220. Marriage Registration.
(a) A record of each marriage performed on Guam shall be
filed with the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics as provided in this
section.
(b) The officer who issues the marriage license shall prepare
the license and certificate on the form prescribed and furnished by
the Office of Vital Statistics upon the basis of information
obtained from the parties to be married, who shall attest to the
information by their signatures.
(c) Every person authorized by the laws of Guam to perform
a marriage shall certify the fact of marriage and file the record of
such marriage with the Office of Vital Statistics within ten (10)
days after the ceremony. This certificate shall be signed by the
witnesses, and another signed copy shall be given to the parties
marrying.
(d) The officer issuing marriage licenses shall complete and
forward to the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics, on or before the
fifteenth (15th) day of each month, copies of the applications and
licenses filed with him during the preceding calendar month.
(e) The Director shall accept, for the purpose of recordation,
certified copies of records of marriages performed outside Guam
in which one (1) or both parties are residents of Guam.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3221. Court Reports of Divorce and Annulment of Marriage.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
39
(a) For each divorce and annulment of marriage granted by
the courts of Guam, a report shall be filed with the Office of Vital
Statistics by the clerk of court.
(b) On or before the fifteenth (15th) day of each month, the
clerk of court shall forward to the Office of Vital Statistics the
report of each divorce and annulment of marriage granted during
the preceding calendar month and such related reports as may be
required by regulations issued under this article.
(c) The information necessary to prepare the report shall be
furnished with the petition to the clerk of court by the parties,
petitioner or their legal representative on forms prescribed and
furnished by the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3222. Correction and Amendment of Vital Records.
(a) A certificate or record registered under this article may be
amended only in accordance with this article and regulations
thereunder, adopted by the Department to protect the integrity and
accuracy of vital statistics records.
(b) A certificate that is amended under this section shall be
marked “Amended,” except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d)
of this section. The date of amendment and a summary description
of the evidence submitted in support of the amendment shall be
endorsed on or made a part of the record. The Office of Vital
Statistics shall prescribe by regulation the conditions under which
additions or minor corrections shall be made to birth certificates
within one (l) year after the date of birth without the certificates
being considered as amended.
(c) Upon receipt of a certified copy of a court order changing
the name of a person born in Guam, and upon request of such
person or his parent, guardian or legal representative, the Office
of Vital Statistics shall amend the certificate of birth to reflect the
new name.
(d) Upon request and receipt of a sworn acknowledgment of
paternity of a child born out of wedlock, signed by both parents,
the Guam Registrar of Vital Statistics shall amend a certificate of
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
40
birth to show such paternity, if paternity is not shown on the
certificate. The surname of the child shall then be changed to that
of the father, but the certificate shall not be marked “Amended”.
(e) Upon receipt of a sworn statement from the physician
performing the surgery certifying the sex of an individual has been
changed by surgical procedure, and upon written request of an
individual born in Guam, the sex of the individual shall be
amended on the birth certificate to reflect such change. The name
of the individual may be changed as provided in paragraph (c) of
this section.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3223. Reproduction of Records.
To preserve original documents, the Guam Registrar of Vital
Statistics is authorized to prepare typewritten, photographic or
other reproductions of original records and files in his office. Such
a reproduction, when certified by him and sealed with an official
government seal, shall be accepted as the original and official
record.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3224. Same: Microfilm.
To preserve original records, the Guam Registrar is
authorized and directed to microfilm all vital records. All such
reproductions shall be equally admissible as competent evidence
in all courts of Guam or in any administrative proceeding as the
original itself whether the original is in existence or not.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3225. Disclosure of Records.
(a) To protect the integrity, the confidentiality, the validity
and the evidentiary value of Vital Statistics Records, to insure
their proper use and to insure the efficient and proper
administration of the Vital Statistics system, it shall be unlawful
for any person to permit inspection of, or to disclose information
contained in Vital Statistics Records, or to copy or issue a copy of
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
41
all or part of any such record, except as authorized by regulation
or as provided for by this article.
(b) The Office of Vital Statistics may authorize the disclosure
of data contained in Vital Statistics Records for research purposes;
provided, that request for such be first approved by the Director.
(c) Information in Vital Statistics Records, such as birth
occurring out of wedlock or length of pregnancy, may not be
disclosed except as provided for in this article, by regulation or
upon court order.
(d) Appeals from decisions of the Guam Registrar refusing to
disclose information, or to permit inspection of or copying of
records under the authority of this section and regulations issued
hereunder shall be made to the Director, whose decisions shall be
binding upon the Guam Registrar.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3226. Copies of Data from Vital Records.
In accordance with § 3225 of this article, and the regulations
adopted pursuant thereto:
(a) The Office of Vital Statistics shall upon request,
issue a certified copy of any certificate or record in his
custody or of a part thereof. Each copy issued shall show the
date of registration; and copies issued from records marked
“Delayed,” “Amended” or “Court Order” shall be similarly
marked and show the effective date.
(b) A certified copy of a certificate or any part thereof,
issued in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, shall
be considered for all purposes the same as the original, and
shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated;
provided, that the evidentiary value of the certificate or
record filed more than one (l) year after the event, or a record
which has been amended shall be determined by the judicial
or administrative body or official before whom the certificate
is offered as evidence.
(c) The National Center for Health Statistics shall be
furnished such copies or data as it may require for national
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
42
statistics; provided, that the government of Guam shall be
reimbursed for the cost of furnishing such data; and provided,
further, that such data shall not be used for other than
statistical purposes by the National Center for Health
Statistics unless so authorized by the Office of Vital
Statistics.
(d) Federal, state or other territorial governmental
branches and other public or private agencies may, upon
request, be furnished copies of data for statistical purposes
upon such terms or conditions as may be prescribed by the
Office of Vital Statistics.
(e) No person shall prepare or issue any certificate
which purports to be an original, certified copy or copy of a
certificate of birth, death or fetal death, except as authorized
in this article or regulations adopted hereunder.
§ 3227. Fees for Copies.
(a) The Director shall, by regulation, establish fees for
certified copies of certificates or records issued; for the search of
the files or records when no copy or information is available; for
processing a change of name by court order and other means; for
amending records; and for filing a delayed certificate of birth or
marriage.
(b) Fees collected under this Section by the Office of Vital
Statistics shall be deposited in the Office of Vital Statistics
Revolving Fund, for expenditure as provided pursuant to § 3227.1
of this Chapter.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Amended by P.L.
31-213:2 (May 10, 2012).
§ 3227.1. Office of Vital Statistics Revolving Fund.
(a) There is hereby established an Office of Vital Statistics
Revolving Fund (Fund) to be maintained by the Guam Registrar,
Office of Vital Statistics, of the Department of Public Health &
Social Services. The Fund shall be established and maintained in
a bank account separate and apart from the General Fund or any
other bank account(s) of the government of Guam, and shall not
be co-mingled with, or a part of, the General Fund. All funds due
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
43
or accruing to the account from whatever source(s), as provided
or authorized pursuant to applicable law, inclusive of any interest,
shall be deposited in the Fund in its entirety immediately upon
receipt by the government of Guam. The Fund shall not be subject
to the transfer authority of I Maga’lahen Guåhan. It is further
provided that:
(1) The Guam Registrar of the Office of Vital Statistics,
of the Department of Public Health & Social Services shall
report monthly and maintain full compliance with all
financial reporting requirements of the government of Guam
pursuant to applicable law; and
(2) Any and all collections deposited into and/or
expenditures from the Fund shall be reported to I Maga’lahen
Guåhan and the Speaker of I Liheslaturan Guåhan.
(b) Independent Records and Accounts. The Fund shall be
maintained separate and apart from all other government funds;
have an independent records and accounts concerning the Fund;
and audited by the Public Internal Auditor or the Department of
Interior for each fiscal year and shall provide I Maga’lahen
Guåhan and the Speaker of I Liheslaturan Guåhan with a copy of
the audited report.
(c) Deposits / Continuing Appropriation. All monies
collected for products and services rendered by the Office of Vital
Statistics shall be accounted for and deposited into the Fund and
shall be available to pay for the expenses of the Office of Vital
Statistics. All monies in the Fund are hereby deemed appropriated
on a continuing basis and shall not lapse, and shall not be subject
to appropriation constraints in order to be expended.
(d) Application. All monies deposited in the Fund shall be
available to be expended and shall be used solely in support of the
functions of and to pay the expenses of the Office of Vital
Statistics. The Fund may also be used for, but is not limited to,
the following expenses which shall be directly and solely
applicable to the functions and operations of the Office of Vital
Statistics:
(1) payment(s) for procurement and maintenance of
contractual services for equipment and/or technology
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
44
support, for the direct use and exclusive benefit of the Office
of Vital Statistics;
(2) payment(s) for supplies;
(3) payment(s) for any other expenses, which if remains
unpaid may result in an emergency situation within the
Office of Vital Statistics, as approved by the Director;
(4) additional personnel, as may be necessary to
supplement and address the staffing requirements of the
Office of Vital Statistics; provided, however, that all
authorized personnel positions, regardless of whether the
position(s) is currently filled or vacant, which are budgeted
for in the FY 2012 Budget Appropriation for the Executive
Branch with monies from the General Fund, any Special
Fund and/or Federal funds, shall continue to be paid from
these funding sources, and not from the Fund;
(5) procurement, upgrade and/or maintenance of
computer system(s); and
(6) payment(s) for burials arranged by the Director
pursuant to § 3231 of this Chapter 3, and § 4A103 of Chapter
4A Title 10, Guam Code Annotated.
(e) The Director shall submit an annual spending plan for the
Fund in accordance with and at the same time as the Bureau of
Budget and Management Research budget call.
(f) The Guam Registrar of the Office of Vital Statistics, via
the Director, shall, by no later than the 20th day of each month,
submit a financial report relative to the status and activities of the
Fund. The monthly report shall be submitted, via the Office of I
Maga’lahen Guåhan, to the Speaker of I Liheslaturan Guåhan,
and the Chairpersons of the Committee on Finance, and the
Committee on Health of I Liheslaturan Guåhan. The report shall,
at a minimum, contain:
(1) all expenditures and encumbrances (monthly and
year to date);
(2) funds received and source(s);
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
45
(3) status of accounts receivable for outstanding debts
and/or delinquent payment obligations owed to the Office of
Vital Statistics; and
(4) any and all other pertinent information relative to the
Fund.
(g) The Office of Vital Statistics Revolving Fund shall be
included in the government of Guam annual audit review and
report.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 31-213:3 (May 10, 2012).
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
2015 NOTE: In subsection (d)(6), the reference to § 4501 of Chapter 4A
of Title 10 GCA was changed to § 4A103 pursuant to authority granted by
1 GCA § 1606.
§ 3228. Duty to Furnish Information Relative to Vital Events.
Any person having knowledge of the facts, shall furnish such
information as he may possess regarding any birth, death, fetal
death, marriage or divorce, upon demand of the Guam Registrar
of Vital Statistics.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3229. Penalties.
(a) (l) Any person who willfully and knowingly makes any
false statement in a report, record or certificate required to
be filed under this article or in an application for amendment
thereof or who willfully and knowingly supplies false
information intending that such information be used in the
preparation of any such report, record or certificate, or
amendment thereof; or
(2) Any person who without lawful authority and with
intent to deceive, makes, alters, amends or mutilates any
report, record or certificate required to be filed under this
article or certified copy of such report, record or certificate;
or
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
46
(3) Any person who willfully and knowingly uses or
attempts to use or furnish to another for use, for any purpose
of deception, any certificate, record, report or certified copy
thereof so made, altered, amended or mutilated; or
(4) Any person who, with the intention to deceive,
willfully uses or attempts to use any certificate of birth or
certified copy of a record of birth, knowing that such
certificate or certified copy was issued upon a record which
is false in whole or in part, or which relates to the birth of
another person; or
(5) Any person who willfully and knowingly furnishes
a certificate of birth or certified copy of a record of birth with
the intention that it be used by a person other than the person
to whom the record of birth relates, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(b) (l) Any person who refuses to provide information
required by this article; or
(2) Any person who willfully and knowingly transports
or accepts for transportation; interment or other disposition a
dead body without an accompanying permit as required by
this article; or
(3) Any person who willfully neglects or violates any of
the provisions of this article, or refuses to perform any of the
duties imposed upon him by this article, shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor.
§ 3230. Burial-Transit Permits.
(a) No dead human body or fetus attaining twenty (20) weeks
of gestation or more shall be buried, deposited in a crypt,
mausoleum or vault, cremated, removed from Guam or otherwise
disposed of, unless a burial-transit permit has first been issued
therefor by the Office of Vital Statistics. Such permit shall be
presented to the person in charge of the cemetery, crematorium or
other place of disposition, and shall be promptly returned by him
to the Office of Vital Statistics after such burial, cremation or
other disposition with a certification that the body was disposed
of in accordance with the burial-transit permit.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
47
(b) The Guam Registrar shall not issue a burial-transit permit
for the disposition of any dead body in any place other than in a
cemetery, crematorium, crypt or mausoleum which is in
compliance with the regulations for cemeteries, crematoriums,
crypts or mausoleums established by the Director. Each burial-
transit permit shall include the cemetery plot number, crypt
number or other information which will designate the exact
location to which the body will be taken.
(c) The Guam Registrar shall issue burial-transit permits for
disposition of bodies outside Guam or for burial at sea only when
such disposition complies with regulations established by the
Director for this purpose.
(d) Any person first assuming custody of a dead body or fetus
shall obtain a burial-transit prior to final disposition or removal
from Guam within seventy-two (72) hours after death.
(e) Burial-transit permits shall be issued provided that first a
certificate of death or fetal death has been filed with the Office in
accordance with §§ 3216 and 3217 of this article.
(f) A permit issued under the law of any state which
accompanies a dead human body or fetus brought into Guam for
final disposition shall be the authority to dispose of said body or
fetus; provided, that the Director, in the protection of the public
health, having consideration of the cause of death or other special
conditions, may, in his discretion, order such form of burial or
disposition of a dead body or fetus as he deems necessary.
(g) No dead human body or remains shall be disinterred for
reburial or other purpose from any cemetery, crypt, mausoleum or
vault without a permit from the Office of Vital Statistics. Such
disinterments must comply with regulations established by the
Director of the disinterment of human bodies or remains.
2017 NOTE: References to “territory” and “territorial” removed and/or
altered to “Guam” pursuant to 1 GCA § 420.
§ 3231. Disposition.
The right to control the disposition of a dead human body and
the duty of burial or other disposition and the liability for the
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
48
reasonable cost shall be pursuant to the provisions of § 4A102 and
§ 4A103 of Chapter 4A of 10 GCA.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Amended by P.L.
31-046:3 (May 23, 2011).
2015 NOTE: The reference to §§ 4502 and 4503 of Chapter 4A of Title
10 GCA was changed to §§ 4A102 and 4A103 pursuant to authority
granted by 1 GCA § 1606.
2013 NOTE: Subsection designation deleted to adhere to the Compiler’s
general codification scheme in accordance to the authority granted by 1
GCA § 1606.
----------
ARTICLE 3
DISEASE CONTROL
§ 3301. Definitions.
§ 3302. Duty to Report.
§ 3303. Same: Dispensaries, Hospitals, etc.
§ 3304. Same: Laboratories.
§ 3305. Same: Keeper of Boarding or Lodging Houses.
§ 3306. Same: Master of Vessels; Captain of Aircraft.
§ 3307. Investigation.
§ 3308. Same: Access to Records, Reports, etc.
§ 3309. Isolation and Quarantine: Regulations.
§ 3310. Same: Authority of Director.
§ 3311. Placarding.
§ 3312. Violation of Isolation or Quarantine.
§ 3313. Chief of Police.
§ 3314. Disinfection of Premises.
§ 3315. Destruction of Property.
§ 3316. Compensation.
§ 3317. Closing of Schools.
§ 3318. Disposal of Bodies.
§ 3319. Responsibility of Person in Charge of Minor.
§ 3320. Willful Exposure.
§ 3321. Concealing Disease.
§ 3322. Vaccination and Immunization.
§ 3323. Prenatal Test.
§ 3324. Reports as to Prenatal Test.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
49
§ 3325. Prevention of Blindness at Childbirth.
§ 3326. Immunization Audit.
§ 3326.1. Guam Immunization Registry.
§ 3327. Same: Confidentiality.
§ 3328. Autopsy.
§ 3329. Testing for Tuberculosis.
§ 3330. Testing of Juveniles for Human Immunodeficiency
Virus, and Other Sexually Transmitted Diseaes upon
Conviction or Adjudication of Having Committed
Act or Acts of Criminal Sexual Assault.
§ 3331. Disclosure of Test Results.
§ 3332. Notice of Risk of Sexually Transmitted Disease.
§ 3333. Restricting Entry into Guam.
§ 3301. Definitions.
As used in this article:
(a) Communicable Disease includes any of the
following diseases or conditions which are dangerous to
public health:
(1) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
(AIDS)
(2) Amebiasis (amoebic dysentery);
(3) Anthrax;
(4) Brucellosis (undulant fever);
(5) Chancroid;
(6) Chickenpox;
(7) Cholera;
(8) Clonorchiasis (liver-fluke);
(9) Conjunctivitis, acute infectious (pink eye);
(10) Dengue;
(11) Diarrhea of newborn (epidemic infantile);
(12) Diphtheria;
(13) Encephalitis, primary (infectious);
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
50
(14) Erysipelas;
(15) Favus;
(16) Filariasis;
(17) Fish (ciguatera) poisoning;
(18) Fish (scombroid) poisoning;
(19) Glanders (farcy);
(20) Gonorrhea;
(21) Gonorrheal ophthalmia;
(22) Granuloma inguinale;
(23) Hepatitis A (Infectious)
(24) HIV-seropositive condition;
(25) Hepatitis B (Serum);
(26) Hookworm disease;
(27) Impetigo contagious (in institution);
(28) Influenza;
(29) Kerato-Conjunctivitis (Infectious);
(30) Leprosy (Hansen's Disease);
(31) Leptospirosis (Weil's disease or hemorrhagic
jaundice);
(32) Malaria;
(33) Measles (rubeola);
(34) Melioidosis
(35) Meningitis, aseptic;
(36) Meningitis, cerebrospinal (meningococcic);
(37) Meningitis, other infectious;
(38) Mononucleosis, infectious;
(39) Mumps;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
51
(40) Paratyphoid fever;
(41) Pertussis (whooping cough);
(42) Plague;
(43) Poliomyelitis, acute anterior (infantile
paralysis);
(44) Psittacosis-ornithosis;
(45) Puerperal septicemia;
(46) Rabies;
(47) Relapsing fever;
(48) Rheumatic fever (active);
(49) Rickettsial disease;
(50) Ringworm of the scalp (tinea capitis);
(51) Rubella (German measles);
(52) Salmonellosis;
(53) Scabies;
(54) Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS)
(55) Scarlet Fever;
(56) Septic sore throat (streptococcus);
(57) Shigellosis (bacillary dysentery);
(58) Smallpox;
(59) Syphilis;
(60) Tetanus;
(61) Trachoma;
(62) Trichinosis;
(63) Tuberculosis (pulmonary);
(64) Tuberculosis (other than pulmonary);
(65) Tularemia;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
52
(66 Typhoid fever;
(67) Typhus fever;
(68) Yaws;
(69) Yellow fever
(70) Any other disease deemed by the Director to
be dangerous to the public health may be added by
regulation.
(71) In the event of any severe communicable
disease with pandemic potential which is identified and
declared by the U.S. Center for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) to be critically dangerous to public
health and safety, and CDC mandates, directives,
instructions and protocol criteria are being implemented
in a national effort to combat the spread of the disease,
the disease shall be immediately added, and shall not
require prior promulgation by regulation as a requisite
for inclusion when time is of the essence in ensuring the
health and safety of the public. Subsequent
promulgation by regulation may follow when
practicable.
(b) Isolation means the separation of persons suffering a
communicable disease or carriers of such a disease from
other persons for the period of communicability in such
places and under such conditions as will prevent the
transmission of the causative agent; and
(c) Quarantine means the limitation of freedom of
movement of those who have been exposed to a
communicable disease, whether a person or animal, for a
period of time equal to the longest usual incubation period of
the disease, in such manner as to prevent effective contacts
with those not so exposed.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). New Item (a)(55)
(SARS) added by P.L. 27-007:1 (Apr. 9, 2003); remaining items
renumbered pursuant to P.L. 27-007:2. Subsection (a)(71) added by P.L.
32-221:3 (Dec. 20, 2014).
§ 3302. Duty to Report.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
53
Any person licensed or registered to practice any healing art
under Chapter 12 of this Title who has knowledge of or suspects
the presence of any communicable disease or any other disease
dangerous to the public health, shall report the same to the
Director within forty-eight (48) hours after diagnosis, unless a
different time is prescribed by regulation, together with the name,
age, village of residence and sex of the person afflicted, the house
or other place in which such person may be found, and such other
information as may be required by regulation.
§ 3303. Same: Dispensaries, Hospitals, etc.
The superintendent, chief medical officer, nurse in charge or
other person in charge of any hospital, clinic, dispensary,
infirmary, medical aid station or other establishment providing
medical care, either to the general public or otherwise, who has
knowledge of the presence of any communicable disease or any
other disease dangerous to the public health shall report the same
to the Director in accordance with § 3302 of this article. When the
patient is hospitalized, the person in charge of the hospital in
which he is hospitalized shall make the report.
3304. Same: Laboratories.
The director, administrator, chief officer or other person in
charge of any laboratory, public or private, performing any test or
examinations upon persons or their blood, urine, feces or any other
body products shall, upon identification or suspected
identification of an etiologic agent, antigen, antibody or any other
substance or combination of substances generally accepted as
being diagnostic of the presence of a communicable disease, shall
report same to the Director in accordance with § 3302 of this
article.
§ 3305. Same: Keeper of Boarding or Lodging Houses.
Any owner, keeper or other person in charge of the operation
of a hotel, boarding house or dormitory shall immediately report
to the Director the presence therein of any person he has reason to
believe to be sick of, or to have died of any contagious, infectious,
communicable or other disease dangerous to the public health.
§ 3306. Same: Master of Vessels; Captain of Aircraft.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
54
Any master of a vessel or captain of an aircraft shall
immediately report to the Director or his representative the
presence aboard such vessel or aircraft of any person such master
or captain has reason to believe to be sick of or to have died of any
communicable disease.
§ 3307. Investigation.
When a complaint is made or a reasonable belief exists that a
communicable disease or other disease dangerous to the public
health prevails in any house or elsewhere which has not been
reported, the Director shall make an inspection for the purpose of
discovering whether any such disease exists.
§ 3308. Same: Access to Records, Reports, etc.
When the Director has reason to believe that a communicable
disease exists but that full and complete information as required
by § 3302 of this article has not been provided, the Director or his
representative may examine any and all records or reports deemed
necessary to fully investigate the disease.
§ 3309. Isolation and Quarantine: Regulations.
(a) Isolation and quarantine shall be imposed in accordance
with regulations. Such regulations shall designate the disease for
which isolation or quarantine is necessary, and such other
requirements concerning diagnosis, treatment, release and other
pertinent matters as may be necessary.
(b) The regulations shall also provide for isolation and
quarantine, voluntary and involuntary, for the known incubation
period, as determined by the U.S. Center for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), of any communicable disease which is
identified and declared by the CDC to be critically dangerous to
public health and safety; and CDC mandates, directives,
instructions and protocol criteria are being declared and
implemented in a national effort to combat the spread of the
disease.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subsection (b)
added by P.L. 32-221:2 (Dec. 20, 2014).
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
55
2015 NOTE: Subsection (b) was added as subsection (a) by P.L. 32-221:2,
but was redesignated by the Compiler pursuant to the authority of 1 GCA
§ 1606.
§ 3310. Same: Authority of Director.
(a) Notwithstanding § 3309 of this article, when a person has
or is reasonably suspected of having or is reasonably suspected of
being a carrier of any communicable disease or any other disease
dangerous to the public health, the Director may impose isolation
of such person and may impose quarantine on anyone who has had
contact with such person. The extent and duration of isolation and
quarantine imposed in a given case and release therefrom shall be
within the discretion of the Director, depending upon the disease.
The Director may, in his discretion, determine the persons subject
to isolation and quarantine, specify the places or areas to which or
in which they are restricted in their movements, prescribe other
conditions and requirements to be observed, decide the duration
of isolation and quarantine and release therefrom and issue other
necessary instructions. He shall insure that provisions are made
for medical observation of such persons as frequently as necessary
during isolation and quarantine or amend the degree thereof and
other restrictions imposed in connection therewith at any time.
(b) When a person has or is reasonably suspected of having
or is reasonably suspected of being a carrier of any communicable
disease or any other disease dangerous to the public health, the
Director may, in his discretion and for the safety of the public,
remove such person, with or without his consent, to a licensed
hospital or other designated premises for the purpose of isolation
and treatment until the disease is no longer communicable by such
person. If the Director should determine that removal of such
person is not practicable, such person may be allowed to remain
where he is and the Director may take such measures as he may
deem advisable to provide for his care for the public health by way
of isolation and quarantine.
(c) Notwithstanding § 3309 of this Article, the Director
may, in his discretion and for the health and safety of the public,
remove such person, with or without his consent for isolation and
quarantine, voluntary and involuntary, for the duration of the
known incubation period, as determined by the U.S. Center for
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
56
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), of any severe
communicable disease which is identified and declared by the
CDC to be critically dangerous to public health and safety, and for
which CDC mandates, directives, instructions and protocol
criteria are being declared and implemented in a national effort to
combat the spread of the disease.
(1) The Director shall base the minimum duration of
the incubation period upon the period of time determined to
be appropriate and necessary by the U.S. Center for Disease
Control and Prevention.
(2) The duration of isolation and quarantine for the
incubation period shall be deemed to include an additional
period of time as is necessary for testing and confirmation
that the person does not have, or no longer is the carrier of a
communicable disease.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Subsection (c) added
by P.L. 32-221:4 (Dec. 20, 2014).
§ 3311. Placarding.
When a person has been isolated or quarantined and is
restricted thereby to his residence or other building, the Director
may place in a conspicuous position on the exterior of the
premises where such person is isolated or quarantined a placard
having printed on it in large letters the name of the disease and
warning all unauthorized persons to remain off the premises. Such
placard shall be in both English and Chamorro and in any other
languages the Director deems appropriate. No person shall
remove, deface or destroy such placard until authorized by the
Director. Except as authorized by the Director or by regulation, no
person shall enter or leave any premises which has been placarded.
§ 3312. Violation of Isolation or Quarantine.
No person who has been isolated or quarantined shall leave
the premises or area to which he has been restricted without the
written permission of the Director until he has been released from
such isolation or quarantine.
§ 3313. Chief of Police.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
57
Upon the request of the Director, it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to act and assist in the enforcement of isolation
and quarantine, using such force as may be reasonably necessary.
§ 3314. Disinfection of Premises.
The Director may, if he deems it advisable, order the
premises and contents thereof in which any person has been ill or
has died of a communicable disease or any other room, building,
premises or area, any contents thereof, which may be infective by
contact with any communicable disease, to be disinfected and
purified in such manner as he may direct. It shall be the duty of
the owner or occupant of such premises to comply with any such
order.
§ 3315. Destruction of Property.
The Director may destroy any infective clothing, bedding or
other article which cannot be made safe by disinfection. He shall
furnish to the owner thereof a receipt showing the number,
character, condition and estimated value of the article so
destroyed. A copy of such receipt shall be retained by the Director.
§ 3316. Compensation.
Upon the presentation of the original receipt for articles
destroyed under § 3315 of this article and approval by the
Attorney General, the Director shall pay to the owner of such
property, out of such appropriations of the Department as may be
available, the value of such destroyed articles.
§ 3317. Closing of School.
During an epidemic or threatening epidemic or when a
dangerous communicable disease is unusually prevalent, the
Director may close any public or private school and prohibit any
public or private gathering for such time as may be necessary in
the interest of the public health.
§ 3318. Disposal of Bodies.
The Director, in his discretion, may require that the body of
a person, who has died of a communicable disease or any other
disease dangerous to the public health, be buried or cremated
immediately or within such period of time and in conformity with
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
58
such procedures for the protection of the public health, as he may
designate.
§ 3319. Responsibility of Person in Charge of Minor.
Where any person suffering from a communicable disease is
required to remain isolated or quarantined or to do or refrain from
doing any act or thing whereby spread of the disease may be
enhanced or such person because of his tender age or of physical
or mental disability is unable to comprehend or comply with such
requirements, it shall be the duty of the parent, guardian or other
person, including any attendant having such patient under his care,
custody or control to comply or cause compliance with the
isolation or quarantine so imposed and pertinent provisions of this
article.
§ 3320. Willful Exposure.
No person having a communicable disease or any other
disease dangerous to the public health or being in charge of any
other person afflicted with such a disease, shall willfully expose
himself or such person in any public place, street or highway
except as may be authorized by the Director.
§ 3321. Concealing Disease.
No person shall conceal any person having any
communicable disease or any other disease dangerous to the
public health, including any venereal disease. No parent, guardian
or other person having custody or care of a minor child shall
conceal the fact of a minor child having any such disease.
§ 3322. Vaccination and Immunization.
(a) No student shall be permitted to attend any public or
private school, college or university within Guam unless evidence
is presented to the enrolling officer of such school, college or
university that the student child is free from any communicable
diseases, and has had all the required vaccinations or
immunizations as the Director shall in conformity with Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practice (‘ACIP’) of the United
States Department of Human Services and the American
Academy of Pediatrics (‘AAP’); provided, that in the event that
the recommendations of the ACIP and the AAP differ, the
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
59
Department shall determine which recommendations shall apply,
except that exemption may be granted to a student in a case:
(1) when the vaccination or immunization would be
against his or her religious beliefs and would not constitute a
contagious health risk for the public at large, as certified
annually prior to commencement of the school year by the
Director in consultation with a Guam Licensed physician or
by a Guam licensed physician; or
(2) upon certification by a parent or guardian of a
student who is a minor, that such vaccination or
immunization would be against their religious belief and
would not constitute a contagious health risk for the public at
large, as certified annually prior to commencement of the
school year by the Director in consultation with a Guam
licensed physician or by a Guam Licensed physician; or
(3) when a student who has been certified by a Guam
licensed medical doctor that said student should be exempt
from this Section where medical contraindication to his or
her receiving a specific vaccine exists.
(b) Certificates of medical and religious exemption shall be
kept on file in Bureau of Communicable Diseases Control of the
Department. A copy of the certificate for medical and religious
exemption shall be included in the student’s record at the school.
(c) The Director shall notify enrolling officers of all schools
and shall notify all parents by public media of any changes to the
existing immunization schedules no later than March 1 of each
year to allow for the smooth opening of traditionally scheduled
schools.
(d) The Director shall require vaccination and immunization
of any person or persons suspected as carriers of a communicable
disease upon entering or leaving Guam which the Director
believes may present a risk to the public health of Guam. In case
of an epidemic or to control a possible epidemic of a
communicable disease, the Director may direct that the general
population be vaccinated and immunized against said disease.
Students who are not immunized for whatever reason may be
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
60
excluded from schools at the direction of the Director in case of
an epidemic or to control a possible epidemic.
(e) (1) Nothing herein shall be construed or interpreted as
to prevent the Guam Department of Education (GDOE) from
implementing a School-Located Vaccination (SLV) program
in any school or institution of higher learning on Guam for
the purpose of administering vaccines required by Subsection
(a). Such SLV program may additionally include, but not be
limited to, the administering of human papillomavirus (HPV)
vaccines, annual influenza (flu shot) vaccines, or any other
vaccines not required by Subsection (a), but recommended
by the United States Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC). Such SLV programs may be implemented
in public schools, individually or on a system-wide basis.
GDOE may enroll in the federally-funded Vaccine for
Children (VFC) program, overseen by the Department of
Public Health and Social Services Immunization Program, as
a provider. The Department of Public Health and Social
Services Immunization Program may assist GDOE at the
start of the SLV Program by providing medical and ancillary
supplies (syringes, needles, gloves, biohazard bags, sharps
container, band aids, and alcohol prep pads) and may assist
in meeting compliance for storage and handling, provide
required digital loggers, a proper transport cooler, and if
funding is available, a medical/pharmaceutical grade
refrigerator.
(2) To the extent allowable and practical, the Guam
Department of Education may bill any health insurance/plan
company, Medicaid, the Medically Indigent Program (MIP),
the Child Health Insurance Program (CHIP), or any other
party providing coverage for which the child is covered for
the cost of the vaccines/immunizations, supplies to
administer vaccines/immunizations, the administering of the
vaccines/immunizations, and other permitted costs. The
Guam Department of Education is not permitted to bill any
party for any vaccines or supplies that were received through
federal programs or donations where the acceptance of such
vaccines and supplies prohibits such billing. Revenues
realized from such billing activities shall be used to cover the
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
61
costs of the Guam Department of Education related to the
SLV program, and maintained in a separate fund and bank
account. Billing and accounting services may be
administered by the Department of Administration or may be
outsourced to a private accounting firm. All receipts,
expenditures, and financial statements shall be subject to
audit and review periodically as determined by the Guam
Office of Public Accountability.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 22-130:2 (May 31, 1994). Repealed and
reenacted by P.L. 24-154:2 (Apr. 9, 1998). Subsection (a) amended by P.L.
24-335:2 (Dec. 30, 1998). Subsection (e) added by P.L. 35-102:1 (Oct. 29,
2020).
2021 NOTE: Subitem designations added pursuant to the authority of 1
GCA § 1606.
2013 NOTE: Numbers and/or letters were altered to adhere to the
Compiler’s alpha-numeric scheme in accordance to 1 GCA § 1606.
§ 3323. Prenatal Test.
Any licensed physician attending a pregnant woman for a
condition relating to her pregnancy during the period of gestation
or at delivery shall take or cause to be taken a sample of the blood
of such woman and submit such sample to the Department’s
laboratory or other laboratory approved by the Director for a
standard serologic test for syphilis. Any other person permitted by
law to attend pregnant women, but not permitted by law to take
blood samples, shall cause a sample of blood of every pregnant
woman attended by him to be taken by a duly licensed physician
or at a lab approved by the Director for a standard serologic test
for syphilis. Such samples of blood shall be taken at the time of
the first visit of the pregnant woman or within fourteen (14) days
thereafter. Every pregnant woman shall permit such samples of
her blood to be taken as in this section.
§ 3324. Report as to Prenatal Test.
In reporting any birth or stillbirth, any physician or other
person required to make such reports shall state in a report
accompanying the certificate whether, according to his knowledge
or information, a blood test for syphilis has been made upon a
specimen of blood taken from the woman who bore the child for
which the birth or stillbirth certificate is filed and the approximate
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
62
date when the specimen was taken. The Director is authorized to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the birth of any baby
on whose mother no serologic test, as required by the provisions
of this article, appears to have been taken.
§ 3325. Prevention of Blindness at Childbirth.
Any physician, midwife, or any other person in attendance at
childbirth immediately after birth shall administer a one percent
(1%) silver nitrate solution to both eyes of the newborn child.
Preparations other than one percent (1%) silver nitrate may be
used only on approval of the Director and subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Director may impose.
§ 3326. Immunization Audit.
Annually, the Director shall conduct an immunization audit.
Sample audits shall be conducted on public health clinic records,
private clinic records and private physicians' records to determine
if:
(a) One (1) consolidated immunization record is posted
on the inside front cover of the patient's medical record if the
patient is under the age of eighteen (18); and
(b) If the record of any child found to be deficient in
immunizations indicates:
(1) That progress towards immunization is being
made;
(2) A record of scheduled return appointment for
the child; or
(3) A reason for the lack of immunization.
§ 3326.1. Guam Immunization Registry.
(a) All health care providers performing immunizations to
children and adults shall submit immunization reports to the
Department of Public Health and Social Services (Department) in
a manner compliant with the guidelines for submissions issued by
the Department, which shall, at a minimum, indicate the name,
date, age, and gender, and specific immunization received by the
patient.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
63
(1) All immunization records and reports made for the
purposes of compliance with this Section that directly or
indirectly identify a person shall be kept confidential and
shall not be disclosed, except under the following conditions:
(A) the person identified, the person’s legal
guardian, or in the case of a minor, the minor’s parent or
legal guardian consents;
(B) disclosure is deemed necessary by the
Director of the Department to carry out the purposes and
intent of this Chapter;
(C) a court directs upon its determination that
disclosure is necessary for the conduct of proceedings
before it;
(D) the disclosure is made between the person’s
healthcare provider and payer to obtain reimbursement
for services rendered to the person; provided, that
disclosure shall be made only if the provider informs the
person that a reimbursement claim will be made to the
person’s payer, the person is afforded an opportunity to
pay the reimbursement directly, and the person does not
pay; or
(E) the Department of Public Health and Social
Services releases aggregate immunization information
that does not disclose any identifying information of
persons whose information is maintained in the registry.
(2) Registry information shall be limited to patient
name, demographic information, and contact information;
information specific to immunizations or medication
received by the patient, including types, manufacturers, lots
numbers, expiration dates, anatomical sites of administration,
routes of administration, vaccine information statement
publication dates, doses, dates administered, the patient’s
history of vaccine, preventable diseases, and
contraindications, precautions, adverse reactions to, or
comments regarding immunization or medications; and the
name and contact information of the vaccination
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
64
administrator or medication provider and the patient’s
healthcare provider.
(3) The Department of Public Health and Social
Services shall adopt administrative, physical, and technical
measures to ensure the security of the registry; protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of registry data;
and prevent unauthorized access to registry information.
(b) Purpose for Access to Registry Information; Access not
Disclosure.
(1) Notwithstanding Subsection (a)(1), it shall not be a
disclosure for the persons listed in Paragraphs (2), (3), (4)
and (5) of this Subsection to have limited access to registry
information for the purposes specified in each Subsection.
(2) Registry information regarding specific individuals
in the registry may be accessed by authorized healthcare
providers who are treating, have treated, or have been
assigned to treat those individuals; by authorized employees
of these healthcare providers; and, by authorized DPHSS
health personnel assigned to monitor the immunization or
health status of those individuals for the purposes of:
(A) recording the administration of any
vaccination, including the pandemic influenza vaccine;
(B) determining the immunization history of a
patient to deliver healthcare treatment accordingly;
(C) notifying individuals or parents or legal
guardians of the need to schedule a visit for an
immunization;
(D) generating official immunization records;
(E) ensuring compliance with mandatory
immunization requirements;
(F) recording the distribution of the prophylactic
and treatment medications administered or dispensed in
preparation for, and in response to, a potentially
catastrophic disease threat; or
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
65
(G) complying with the Guam Immunization
Program.
(3) Registry information regarding specific individuals
in the registry may be accessed by school and post-secondary
school personnel authorized by the Director of Public Health
and Social Services, the Superintendent of the Guam
Department of Education, or the administrator of a private or
post-secondary school for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with mandatory student immunization
requirements.
(4) Registry information regarding specific individuals
in the registry may be accessed by authorized health
organizations that have been contracted to provide health
insurance or health plan coverage for those individuals;
provided, that access is limited to only the enrollees,
members, subscribers, and insured of the authorized health
organization, and for the purpose of producing an
immunization assessment report by the authorized health
organization.
(5) Registry information regarding specific individuals
in the registry may be accessed by the Department, or agents
of the Department, for the purposes of:
(A) ensuring compliance with mandatory
immunization requirements;
(B) performing immunization related quality
improvement or quality assessment activities;
(C) complying with Guam Vaccines for Children
and/or other provided vaccine programs, vaccine
ordering and accountability policies and procedures;
(D) producing aggregate immunization
assessment reports to monitor and improve public
health;
(E) supporting efforts to prevent and manage
outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases, including
pandemic influenza;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
66
(F) assisting the Department in the event of a
public health emergency; or
(G) managing and maintaining the Guam
Immunization Registry system.
(6) The use of the registry information accessed
pursuant to this Section shall be limited to an authorized
vendor for registry development, maintenance and support.
(c) Registry Record Requirements. The establishment of an
individual’s record in the registry shall not require the prior
consent of a patient, the consent of the legal guardian of a patient,
or the consent of a patient’s parent or legal guardian in the case of
a minor or dependent. The Department shall make available to
the patient or patient’s parent or legal guardian in the case of a
minor or dependent, via the patient’s health care provider or
birthing hospital, a written description of the purpose and benefits
of the Guam Immunization Registry, as well as the procedure for
refusing inclusion in the registry.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 32-073:2 (Nov. 27, 2013) as 10 GCA 3210.1.
Codified to this section by the Compiler pursuant to 1 GCA § 1606.
2015 NOTE: Subsection designation (c)(1) was altered to subsection (c)
to adhere to the Compiler’s general codification scheme pursuant to the
authority granted by 1 GCA § 1606.
§ 3327. Same: Confidentiality.
The immunization audit shall be done by the Director who
may delegate his duty. The Director shall be responsible for
assuring that the confidentiality of individual patient records is
preserved. The Department shall be responsible for compiling a
statistical report of the audit.
§ 3328. Autopsy.
The Director may order an autopsy to determine if the
deceased died of a communicable disease or whenever, in his
direction, the public interest justifies it.
§ 3329. Testing for Tuberculosis.
(a) No student shall be permitted to attend any public or
private school, college, or university within Guam unless they
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
67
have on file with the enrolling officer of such school, college or
university a report of a Tuberculosis (“TB”) skin test result.
(b) If the student is entering from the United States or states
or its territories, such test must have been conducted within one
year prior to enrollment. If the student is entering from an area
other than the United States or its states or territories, such test
must have been conducted within six (6) months prior to
enrollment.
(c) If a student has had a positive TB skin test, a Certificate
of Tuberculosis Evaluation must be obtained from the
Department. If this certificate indicates that the student is TB
contagious the student shall be permitted entrance to school only
after he or she is certified as noncontagious by the Department.
2014 NOTE: Subsection designations were added by the Compiler in
accordance with the authority granted by 1 GCA § 1606.
§ 3330. Testing of Juveniles for Human Immunodeficiency
Virus, and Any Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases upon
Conviction or Adjudication of Having Committed Act or Acts
of Criminal Sexual Assault.
The court shall issue an order requiring a juvenile, who has
been certified to the criminal court for prosecution as an adult and
convicted of criminal sexual conduct, as defined in §§ 25.15,
25.20, 25.25, and 25.30 of Title 9, Guam Code Annotated, or a
juvenile adjudicated to have committed an act or acts of criminal
sexual conduct or placed in a deferred admission status for
criminal sexual conduct, to submit to testing to determine the
presence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), or any other
sexually transmitted disease, if the victim requests the test.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 23-071:2 (Feb. 27, 1996).
2013 NOTE: Subsection designation deleted to adhere to the Compiler’s
general codification scheme in accordance to the authority granted by 1
GCA § 1606.
§ 3331. Disclosure of Test Results.
The date and results of a test performed under Section 3330
of this Chapter must be made available, on request, to the victim
or, if the victim is a minor, to the victim's parent or guardian and
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
68
positive test results shall be reported to the Director of Public
Health, as required under §§ 3302, 3303, and 3304 of this Chapter.
Data regarding administration and results of the test shall not be
accessible to any other person for any purpose and shall not be
maintained in any record of the court or court services or any other
record
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 23-071:3 (Feb. 27, 1996).
§ 3332. Notice of Risk of Sexually Transmitted Disease.
(a) Notice required. A hospital shall give a written notice
about sexually transmitted diseases to a person receiving medical
services in the hospital who reports or evidences a sexual assault
or other unwanted sexual contact or sexual penetration. When
appropriate, the notice must be given to the parent or guardian of
the victim.
(b) Contents of notice. The Chief of Police, or his designee,
in consultation with sexual assault victim advocates and health
care professionals, shall develop the notice required by subsection
(a). The notice must inform the victim of:
(1) the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases
as a result of a sexual assault;
(2) the symptoms of sexually transmitted diseases;
(3) recommendations for periodic testing for the
diseases, where appropriate;
(4) locations where confidential testing is done and the
extent of the confidentiality provided;
(5) information necessary to make an informed decision
whether to request a test of the offender under 10 GCA §
3330; and
(6) other medically relevant information.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 23-071:4 (Feb. 27, 1996).
§ 3333. Restricting Entry into Guam.
(a) Upon declaration by the United States Centers for
Disease Control and/or the World Health Organization that a
health-related epidemic or outbreak has taken place in a
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
69
jurisdiction, or issues a health advisory on a jurisdiction, I
Maga’lahen Guåhan, with the advice from the Director of Public
Health and Social Services, may, through Executive Order,
declare a public health emergency and restrict entry into Guam
those individuals who have been in the affected jurisdiction for
more than one (1) week and do not possess a recognized and
certified document that attests that they have been tested for the
specific disease and determined not to be infected. The date of the
test must not be more than one (1) week from the date of their
entry into Guam.
(b) Any individual who enters into Guam without the
proper documentation, shall be quarantined pursuant to this
Section and §§19604 and 19605 of Article 6, Chapter 19 of Title
10, Guam Code Annotated.
(c) Any and all costs associated with the quarantine and/or
treatment of individuals who unlawfully enter Guam pursuant to
this Act will be the responsibility of the individual and the carrier
that the individual contracted to travel to Guam with.
(d) Once the entry restriction is imposed, it will remain in
effect until I Maga’lahen Guåhan, with the advice from the
Director of Public Health and Social Services, issues a written
order rescinding the Executive Order.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 29-107:1 (Aug. 22, 2008).
----------
ARTICLE 4
MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH AND
CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS
§ 3401. Designation of Department of Public Health and
Social Services as Cooperative Agency.
§ 3401. Designation of Department of Public Health and Social
Services as Cooperative Agency.
The Department of Public Health and Social Services is
hereby designated as the agency to cooperate with the duly
constituted Federal authorities in the administration of these parts
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
70
of the Social Security Act which relate to maternal and child
health services and the care and treatment of children with special
health needs and is authorized to receive and expend all funds
made available by the Federal government or from any other
source for the purpose provided in this article; provided, that all
plans, rules and regulations, or agreements adopted in connection
therewith shall be subject to the approval of the Governor.
----------
ARTICLE 5
MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH SERVICES
§ 3501. Maternal and Child Health Programs: Administration
and Purposes.
§ 3502. Guam Plan for Maternal and Child Health Services:
Formulation, Adoption and Approval.
§ 3503. Provisions to Be Included in Guam Plan.
§ 3504. Duties of Director.
§ 3505. Maternal and Child Health Service Funds: Custody
and Expenditures.
§ 3501. Maternal and Child Health Programs: Administration
and Purposes.
(a) The Department of Public Health and Social Services (the
Department) is hereby designated as the agency to administer a
maternal and child health program in Guam.
(b) The purposes of such program shall be to develop, extend
and improve health services, and to provide for development of
demonstration services.
§ 3502. Guam Plan for Maternal and Child Health Services:
Formulation, Adoption and Approval.
(a) The Department hereby empowered and authorized:
(l) To formulate, adopt and administer a detailed plan or
plans for the purposes specified in § 3501 of this article.
(2) To make and adopt all such rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of §§ 3501 through 3505 of
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
71
this article, inclusive, or of the Social Security Act, as are or
may be necessary for the administration of such plan or plans
and the administration of this article.
(b) Such plan or plans and the rules and regulations when
formulated shall be submitted to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services for approval, and when approved by the
Secretary shall thereupon be made effective by the Department in
accordance with the Administration Adjudication Law.
§ 3503. Provisions to Be Included in Guam Plan.
Such plan or plans shall include therein provisions for:
(a) Financial participation by Guam.
(b) Administration of such plans or plans by the
Department.
(c) Such methods of administration as are necessary for
efficient operation of such plan or plans.
(d) Maintenance of records and preparation as are
necessary for efficient operation of such plan or plans.
(e) Cooperation with medical, health, nursing and
welfare groups and organizations for the purpose of
extending and improving maternal and child health.
(f) Receiving and expending in the manner provided
herein in accordance with such plan or plans, all funds made
available by the Federal government or from any other source
for such purposes.
(g) Cooperating with the Federal government, through
its appropriate agency or instrumentality, in developing,
extending and improving such services, and in the
administration of such plan or plans and development of
demonstration services among groups in special need.
(h) Carrying out the purposes specified in § 3501 of this
article.
§ 3504. Duties of Director.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
72
(a) The Director of Public Health and Social Services (the
Director) shall be the administrative officer of the agency with
respect to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this article, and of the plan or plans formulated and adopted in
accordance therewith and all such rules and regulations necessary
thereto.
(b) The Director is hereby empowered and directed to
administer and enforce all rules and regulations adopted for the
efficient operations of the plan or plans formulated for the
purposes of this article.
(c) The Director shall, from time to time as directed by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services make such reports in
such form and containing such information as the Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall require.
(d) The Director shall from time to time, pursuant to the rules
and regulations of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
and of the Secretary of the Treasury, requisition and cause to be
deposited with the Treasurer of Guam all moneys allotted to Guam
by the Federal government for the purposes of this article, and
shall cause to be paid out of the treasury the moneys therein
deposited for such purposes.
§ 3505. Maternal and Child Health Service Funds: Custody
and Expenditures.
(a) The Treasurer of Guam is hereby made custodian of all
moneys allotted to Guam by the Federal government, or received
from other sources, for the purposes of maternal and child health
services.
(b) The Treasurer shall receive and provide for the proper
custody of such moneys and is authorized to deposit such moneys
in the same manner as other public moneys are deposited.
(c) Such moneys shall be disbursed only upon certification
by the Director.
----------
ARTICLE 6
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
73
SERVICES FOR CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL HEALTH NEEDS
§ 3601. Program for Services for Children with Special
Health Needs: Administration and Purposes.
§ 3602. Guam Plan for Services for Children with Special
Health Needs: Formulation, Adoption and Approval.
§ 3603. Provisions to be Included in Plan.
§ 3604. Duties of Director.
§ 3605. Services for Children with Special Health Needs:
Custody and Expenditure.
§ 3606. Department Authorized to Enter into Cooperative
Agreements with Federal Government.
§ 3601. Program for Services for Children with Special Health
Needs: Administration and Purposes.
(a) The Department of Public Health and Social Services (the
Department) is hereby designated as the agency to administer a
program of service for children with a disability(ies) or special
health need(s).
(b) The purpose of such program shall be to develop, extend,
and improve services for locating such children, to provide
medical, surgical, corrective and other services and care, to
provide facilities for diagnosis, hospitalization and aftercare.
§ 3602. Guam Plan for Services for Children with Special
Health Needs: Formulation, Adoption and Approval.
(a) The Department is hereby empowered and authorized:
(l) To formulate, adopt and administer a detailed plan or
plans for the purposes specified in § 3601 of this article.
(2) To make and adopt all such rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with the provisions of §§ 3601 through 3605 of
this article, inclusive, or of the Social Security Act, as are or
may be necessary for the administration of such plan or plans
and the administration of this Article.
(b) Such plan or plans and the rules and regulations, when
formulated, shall be submitted to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services for approval, and when approved by the
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
74
Secretary shall thereupon be made effective in accordance with
the Administration Adjudication Law.
§ 3603. Provisions to Be Included in Plan.
Such plan or plans shall include therein provisions for:
(a) Financial participation by Guam.
(b) Administration of such plan or plans by the
Department.
(c) Such methods of administration as are necessary for
efficient operation of such plan or plans.
(d) Maintenance of records and preparation, submission
and filing of reports of services rendered.
(e) Cooperation with medical, health, nursing and
welfare groups and organizations, and with any agency
charged with administration of laws providing for vocational
rehabilitation of physically handicapped children.
(f) Receiving and expending in the manner provided
herein in accordance with such plan or plans, all funds made
available by the Federal government, or from any other
source for such purposes.
(g) Cooperating with the Federal government, through
its appropriate agency or instrumentality, in developing,
extending and improving such services and in the
administration of such plan or plans.
(h) Carrying out the purposes specified in § 3601 of this
article.
§ 3604. Duties of Director.
(a) The Director of Public Health and Social Services (the
Director) shall be the administrative officer of the agency with
respect to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this article, and of the plan or plans formulated and adopted in
accordance therewith, and all such rules and regulations necessary
thereto.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
75
(b) The Director is hereby empowered and directed to
administer and enforce all rules and regulations adopted for the
efficient operations of the plan or plans formulated for the
purposes of this article.
(c) The Director shall, from time to time as directed by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services make such reports, in
such form and containing such information as the Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall require.
(d) The Director of Public Health and Social Services shall
from time to time, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
Secretary of Health and Human Services and of the Secretary of
the Treasury, requisition and cause to be deposited with the
Treasurer of Guam all moneys allotted to Guam by the Federal
government for the purposes of this article, and shall cause to be
paid out of the treasury the moneys therein deposited for such
purposes.
§ 3605. Services for Children with Special Health Needs:
Custody and Expenditure.
(a) The Treasurer of Guam is hereby made custodian of all
moneys allotted to Guam by the Federal government, or received
from other sources, for the purposes of services for children with
special health needs.
(b) The Treasurer of Guam shall receive and provide for the
proper custody of such moneys and is authorized to deposit such
moneys in the same manner as other public moneys are deposited.
(c) Such moneys shall be disbursed only upon certification
by the Director.
§ 3606. Department Authorized to Enter into Agreements
with Federal Government.
The Department is hereby authorized to enter into a
cooperative agreement or agreements with the United States
Department of Health and Human Services prescribing the
manner, terms and conditions of cooperation with such
Department of Health and Human Services in providing for the
identification, diagnosis and treatment of children with special
health needs. Such agreements may define the amounts which
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
76
Guam and the Federal government will contribute under the
agreement and the Department shall be bound and governed by
such agreement or agreements.
----------
ARTICLE 7
U.S. PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES
§ 3701. Designation of the Department as Cooperative
Agency.
§ 3702. Public Health and Social Services Programs:
Administration and Purposes.
§ 3703. Guam Plan for Public Health Services.
§ 3704. Provisions to be included in Guam Plan.
§ 3705. Duties of Director.
§ 3706. Public Health Service Funds: Custody and
Expenditures.
§ 3701. Designation of Department as Cooperative Agency.
The Department of Public Health and Social Services (the
Department) is hereby designated as the agency to cooperate with
the United States Public Health Service in the administration of
those parts of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, which
relate to grants and services for public health purposes, and is
authorized to apply for, receive and expend all funds made
available by the Federal government, or from any other source for
the purposes provided in this article.
§ 3702. Public Health Services Programs: Administration and
Purposes.
(a) The Department is hereby designated as the agency to
administer U.S. Public Health Services programs in Guam.
(b) The purpose of such programs shall be to develop, extend
and improve public health services.
§ 3703. Guam Plan for Public Health Services.
(a) The Department is hereby empowered and authorized:
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
77
(l) To formulate, adopt, subject to the approval of the
Governor, and administer a detailed plan or plans for the
purpose specified in § 3702 of this article.
(2) To make and adopt such rules and regulations,
subject to the approval of the Governor, not inconsistent with
the provisions of §§ 3702 through 3706, inclusive, or of the
Public Health Service Act, as are or may be necessary for the
administration of this article.
(b) Such plan or plans and the rules and regulations when
formulated shall be submitted to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, and when approved by the Secretary shall
thereupon be made effective by the Department, pursuant to the
Administrative Adjudication Law.
§ 3704. Provisions to be Included in Guam Plan.
Such plan or plans shall include therein provisions for:
(a) Financial participation by Guam.
(b) Administration of such plan or plans by the
Department.
(c) Such methods of administration as are necessary for
efficient operation of such plan or plans.
(d) Maintenance of records and preparation, submission
and filing of reports of services rendered.
(e) Cooperation with medical, health, nursing and
welfare groups and organizations for the purpose of
extending and improving public health.
(f) Receiving and expending in the manner provided
herein in accordance with such plan or plans, all funds made
available by the Federal government or from any other source
for such purposes.
(g) Cooperating with the Federal government, through
its appropriate agency or instrumentality, in developing,
extending and improving such services and in the
administration of such plan or plans, and development of
demonstration services.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
78
(h) Carrying out the purposes specified in § 3702 of this
article.
§ 3705. Duties of Director.
(a) The Director of Public Health and Social Services (the
Director) shall be the administrative officer of the agency with
respect to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this article, and of the plan or plans formulated and adopted in
accordance therewith and all such rules and regulations necessary
thereto.
(b) The Director is hereby empowered and directed to
administer and enforce all rules and regulations adopted for the
efficient operations of the plan or plans formulated for the
purposes of this article.
(c) The Director shall from time to time, as directed by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, make such reports, in
such form and containing such information as the Secretary shall
require.
(d) The Director shall from time to time, pursuant to the rules
and regulations of the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
requisition and cause to be deposited with the Treasurer of Guam
all moneys allotted to Guam by the Federal government for the
purposes of this article, and shall cause to be paid out of the
treasury the moneys therein deposited for such purposes.
§ 3706. Public Health Service Funds: Custody and
Expenditures.
(a) The Treasurer of Guam is hereby made custodian of all
moneys allotted to Guam by the Federal Government, or received
from other sources, for the purposes of public health services.
(b) The Treasurer of Guam shall receive and provide for the
proper custody of such moneys and is authorized to deposit such
moneys in the same manner as other public moneys are deposited.
(c) Such moneys shall be disbursed only upon certification
by the Director.
----------
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
79
ARTICLE 8
GUAM COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS
SOURCE: This Article added by P.L. 24-248:2 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by
P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3801. Legislative Intent and Purpose.
§ 3802. Title.
§ 3803. Program.
§ 3804. Personnel.
§ 3805. General Duties.
§ 3806. Federal Grants.
§ 3807. Authority to Set Fees.
§ 3808. Establishment of Regional Community Health
Centers.
§ 3809. Contractual Service.
§ 3810. Primary and Urgent Care Service.
§ 3811. Revolving Fund.
§ 3812. Fee Schedule.
§ 3813. Guam Community Health Centers Board of
Directors (GCHCBD).
§ 3814. Duties of Guam Community Health Centers
Board of Directors.
§ 3815. Transition to Full Autonomy.
§ 3816. Repeal.
§ 3817. Effective Date.
§ 3818. Severability.
§ 3801. Legislative Intent and Purpose.
It is the intent of I Liheslaturan Guahan to provide permanent
guidelines to govern the creation, operation and maintenance of
Guam’s community health centers for the purpose of providing
basic quality health care to the people of Guam as a government
agency.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:2 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3802. Title.
This Act shall be known as, “The Community Health Centers
Act of 2025.”
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
80
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:2 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3803. Program.
There is hereby established within the Government of Guam,
a public corporation and autonomous instrumentality called the
Guam Community Health Centers (GCHC) to be administered by
the Guam Community Health Centers Board of Directors
(GCHCBD) and a Community Health Center Chief Executive
Officer. The GCHC shall cover regions of Guam as the GCHCBD
determines. The Guam Community Health Center Board and
Chief Executive Officer shall adhere to the federal program
requirements as stipulated by the Health Resources & Services
Administration (HRSAs) rules and regulations.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:2 (Aug. 14, 1998), amended by P.L.
32-231:2 (Dec. 30, 2014). Amended by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
2015 NOTE: Pursuant to P.L. 32-231:4 (Dec. 29, 2014), Exhibit A
referenced in this section is codified as Article 4 of Chapter 6, of Title 26,
Guam Administrative Rules and Regulations.
Subsection designations were altered to adhere to the Compiler’s alpha-
numeric scheme pursuant to the authority granted by 1 GCA § 1606.
§ 3804. Personnel.
There shall be assigned sufficient number of administrative
personnel, as may be determined by the Community Health Center
Chief Executive Officer, to provide staff assistance on a full-time
basis to Guam Community Health Centers, and ensure that the
general duties assigned to the Guam Community Health Centers
are adequately administered. It is further provided:
(a) There is hereby established within the GCHC, the
administrative position of Community Health Center Chief
Executive Officer, who shall be responsible for managing the
overall operations, finances, personnel, and facilities of the
community health centers in accordance with the mission,
vision, values, GCHCBD approved policies, Strategic Plan,
and other operational policies.
(1) Salary. The salary of the Community Health
Center Chief Executive Officer shall be based upon the
national standard of Community Health Center Chief
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
81
Executive Officers of Federally Qualified Health
Centers in the U.S., subject to availability of funds for
FY 2025, and included in all subsequent budgets.
(b) There is hereby established within the GCHC, the
senior administrative financial position of Chief Financial
Officer. The responsibility of the position shall include, but
is not limited to, assisting the Chief Executive Officer and
the GCHCBD in the development, implementation and
coordination of the GCHC’s financial policy, fund
management, internal audits, billings and collection, and, the
performance of all other associated administrative functions
and tasks as are necessary in directly providing and ensuring
sound fiscal stability and support for the GCHC.
(1) Salary. The salary of the Chief Financial
Officer shall be based upon the national standard for the
position, as found within the Community Health Center
instrumentality of a U.S., subject to availability of funds
for FY 2025, and included in all subsequent budgets.
(c) There is hereby established within the GCHC, the
administrative and clinical position of Medical Director. The
responsibility of the position shall include, but is not limited
to, assisting the Community Health Center Chief Executive
Officer and GCHCBD in the development, implementation
and coordination of the Program’s medical services policy
and the performance of associated administrative tasks, and
directly providing clinical medical support for all medical
services provided by the GCHC.
The Medical Director shall preferably be a board
certified or board eligible physician specialist in a medical
field deemed to be an appropriate, requisite field of practice,
or multiple field specialties, as is necessary to best meet the
mandates and needs of the GCHC.
Preferable consideration for selection as the Medical
Director shall be given to a board certified or board eligible
physician specialist with experience as a primary care family
practice physician.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
82
(1) Salary. The salary of the Medical Director
shall be based upon the national standard for
Community Health Center Medical Directors in the
U.S., subject to availability of funds for FY2025, and
included in all subsequent budgets.
(d) Amendment of Position Description. The
GCHCBD shall, in keeping with the provisions of Article 3-
Rule Making Procedures, of Chapter 9, Title 5, Guam Code
Annotated, review and amend, as may be necessary, the
position descriptions adopted pursuant to Subsections (a),
(b), and (c) of this Section.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998), amended by P.L.
32-231:3 (Dec. 30, 2014). Amended by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
2015 NOTE: The exhibits referred to in subsections (a), (b), and (c) are
attachments to Public Law 32-231.
§ 3805. General Duties.
The general duties of the CEO are:
(a) to oversee the maintenance and operation of all
existing community health centers and implement measures
approved and promulgated by the Guam Community Health
Centers Board of Directors or GCHCBD;
(b) to maintain and initiate the updating of Fees
Schedule in effect;
(c) to initiate the budgetary requirements, for both
Federal and local funding, of the GCHC;
(d) to account for all generated revenues and prepare
periodic reports required;
(e) to administer the Community Health Center
Revolving Fund for the Guam Community Health Centers
and initiate the required periodic Statement of Condition of
such Fund;
(f) to provide administrative support and refer matters
needing advice or approval to the GCHCBD;
(g) With the approval of the GCHCBD, to establish
additional community health centers and services required by
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
83
the community for basic medical care that private clinics are
either saturated or not meeting the demand of the community
or unavailable in the area of primary care, pediatric care,
prenatal care, infectious disease care, urgent care and to other
areas that the GCHCBD designates as a community
requirement, but are inadequately being provided to the
community;
(h) to perform other duties as may be assigned by the
GCHCBD.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3806. Federal Grants.
The Guam Community Health Center shall comply with all
Federal requirements and procedures necessary for the
administration of grant programs. The CEO, Program Manager,
or designee shall have the authority to apply for Federal Grants.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3807. Authority to Set Fees.
The CEO in consultation with and upon approval of the
GCHCBD is authorized to establish fees for health care services
in accordance with the Administrative Adjudication Law and as
may be required to qualify for grant programs. The fees shall not
be deterrent to receiving health care.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3808. Establishment of Regional Community Health
Centers.
The following Regional Community Health Centers
established in the past by virtue of Executive Orders and laws
specifically issued for the purpose may hereafter be governed by
the GHCHCBD and provisions of this Act:
(a) the Southern Regional Community Health Center
(‘SRCHC’), located in the village of Inalåhan, which is
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
84
tasked to provide quality comprehensive primary health care
services to all the residents of Guam;
(b) the Northern Regional Community Health Center
(‘NRCHC’), located in the Village of Dededo, which is
tasked to provide quality comprehensive primary health care
services to all the residents of Guam; and
(c) such other regional community health centers that
may later be established by the GHCHCBD for similar
purpose.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3809. Contractual Service.
The CEO in consultation with and upon approval of the
GCHCBD may enter into a contractual agreement with other
government agencies or health care provider(s) to provide either,
totally or partially, Community Health Center services. The
GCHCBD or CEO shall also negotiate contractual agreement for
reimbursement of services by the beneficiaries of Health
Insurance Providers or Health Maintenance Organization or other
entities providing health benefits, or shall allow those government
agencies or health care providers to seek reimbursement for their
services rendered in the Community Health Centers.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3810. Primary and Urgent Care Service.
The Community Health Center may provide primary and
urgent care services based on the unavailability of such service in
the community and may enter into a contractual agreement with
the Guam Memorial Hospital Authority or other health care
providers to provide such service.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended and
renamed by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3811. Revolving Fund.
(a) Community Health Center Revolving Fund. There is
hereby established a Community Health Center Revolving Fund
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
85
(Fund) to be maintained by the CEO of the Community Health
Centers. The Fund shall be established and maintained in a bank
account apart and separate from the General Fund or any other
bank account(s) of the government of Guam, and shall not be co-
mingled with, or a part of, the General Fund. All funds due or
accruing to the account from whatever source(s), as provided or
authorized pursuant to applicable law, inclusive of any interest,
shall be deposited in the Fund in its entirety immediately upon
receipt by the government of Guam.
(1) The CEO of Community Health Centers shall
report monthly and maintain full compliance with all
financial reporting requirements of the government of Guam
pursuant to applicable law.
(2) Any and all collections deposited into and/or
expenditures from the Fund shall be reported to the members
of the GCHCBD.
(b) Independent Records and Accounts. The Fund shall be
maintained separate and apart from all other government funds;
have an independent records and accounts concerning the Fund;
and audited as directed by the GCHCBD or the Office of Public
Accountability and shall provide I Maga’hågan/Maga’låhen
Guåhan and I Liheslaturan Guåhan a copy of the audited report.
(c) Deposits. All monies collected for products and services
rendered at the community health centers shall be accounted for
and deposited into the Fund and available to pay for the expenses
of the community centers.
(d) Application. All monies deposited in the Fund shall be
available to be used to pay for the expenses of the community
center allowable by Federal regulations and guidelines as the non-
Federal share of project costs in accordance with the Department’s
grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
The Fund may also be used for the following expenses:
(1) payment(s) for contractual services;
(2) payment(s) for supplies;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
86
(3) payment(s) for any other expenses, which if
remains unpaid may result in an emergency situation as
approved by the Board in a resolution;
(4) the Fund shall be reimbursed from other
appropriated fund sources for any expenditure made as a
result of circumstances outlined in Subsection (3) if the
expenditure was budgeted from said appropriated source; and
(5) board stipends, as provided by applicable law.
(6) Program income shall not be redirected,
reprogrammed, or used for any purpose other than the Guam
Community Health Centers operations.
(e) Accounts Receivables. The Community Health Centers
CEO, in consultation with and upon approval of the GCHCBD, is
hereby authorized to pursue accounts receivables payment in
whatever manner allowable by law, including contractual services
for collection and tax refund garnishments. The Community
Health Centers CEO shall promulgate rules and regulations
through the Administrative Adjudication Law governing
collection and reduction of uncollectible accounts receivables.
(f) The Community Health Centers CEO in consultation
with and upon approval of the GCHCBD shall submit an annual
spending plan for the Fund in accordance with and at the same
time as the Bureau of Budget and Management Research budget
call.
(g) The Community Health Center CEO shall, by no later
than the 20th day of each quarter, submit a financial report relative
to the status and activities of the Community Health Center
Revolving Fund. The quarterly report shall be submitted, via the
Office of I Maga’hågan/Maga’låhen Guåhan, to the Speaker of I
Liheslaturan Guåhan, and the Chairpersons of the Committee on
Finance, and the Committee on Health of I Liheslaturan Guåhan.
The report shall, at a minimum, contain:
(1) all expenditures and encumbrances (monthly and
year-to-date);
(2) funds received and source(s);
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
87
(3) status of accounts receivable for outstanding debts
and/or delinquent payment obligations owed to the
Community Health Center(s); and
(4) any and all other pertinent information relative to
the Fund.
(h) The Community Health Center Revolving Fund shall be
included in the government of Guam annual audit review and
report.
(i) The funds shall be exempt from all transfer authority
granted to the Director of the Department of Administration, the
Director of Department of Public Health and Social Services and
I Maga’hågan/Maga’låhen Guåhan.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:2 (Aug. 14, 1998). Subsection (a)
amended by P.L. 30-106:2 (Mar. 12, 2010). Subsections (c), (d) and (e)
amended by P.L. 30-108:2 (Mar. 12, 2010). Subsections (f) and (g) added
by P.L. 30-108:3 (Mar. 12, 2010). Subsection (g) repealed and reenacted
by P.L. 30-194:2 (Aug. 28, 2010). Subsection (h) added by P.L. 30-194:3
(Aug. 28, 2010). Amended by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3812. Fee Schedule.
(a) The GCHCBD is hereby authorized to implement a fee
schedule. The provision of this Act shall be repealed upon
subsequent submission and approval of the fee schedule through
the Administrative Adjudication Law. The fee schedule must give
discounts accordingly to the Federal Income Poverty Guideline.
The health centers must operate in a manner such that no patient
shall be denied service due to an individual’s inability to pay.
(b) Individuals or families whose income falls below the
federal poverty guidelines shall apply for subsidized medical
services through the Medically Indigent Program or other
medically subsidized program.
(1) The Program shall submit a billing claim to the
Guam Medically Indigent Program Administrator for the
necessary amount to recover the cost of services rendered to
the Medically Indigent Program patients at the fee schedule
rates established for reimbursement pursuant to applicable
law, rules and regulations.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
88
(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
rule or regulation, for the purposes of billing and
collections, the Community Regional Health Centers
Program shall be deemed apart and separate from the
Department, and the Guam Medically Indigent Program
shall promptly remit payment to the Program as
reimbursement for services rendered to MIP patients,
for deposit into the Community Health Center
Revolving Fund.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:2 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended by P.L.
31-176:2 (Feb. 3, 2012). Subsection (a) amended by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb.
11, 2026).
§ 3813. Guam Community Health Centers Board of Directors
(GCHCBD).
GCHCBD Established. There shall be established a Guam
Community Health Centers Board of Directors (“GCHCBD”) to
serve in a governing capacity and maintains oversight of the
Community Health Centers.
(a) The composition of the board shall be defined by
the GCHCBD bylaws and shall at a minimum adhere to the
following Health Resources and Services Administration
(HRSA) requirements, subject to updates in HRSA rules:
(1) The health center’s governing board must
consist of at least nine (9) and no more than twenty-five
(25) members.
(2) The majority [at least fifty-one percent (51%)]
of the health center board members must be patients
served by the health center. Patient board members are
also often referred to as “user” or “consumer” board
members. However, for the purposes of this Chapter,
only the term “patient” or “non-patient” board member
will be used for ease of reference. These health center
patient board members must, as a group, represent the
individuals who are served by the health center in terms
of demographic factors, such as race, ethnicity, and
gender.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
89
(3) Non-patient health center board members
must be representative of the community served by the
health center and must be selected for their expertise in
relevant subject areas, such as community affairs, local
government, finance and banking, legal affairs, trade
unions, and other commercial and industrial concerns,
or social service agencies within the community.
(4) Of the non-patient health center board
members, no more than one-half may derive more than
ten percent (10%) of their annual income from the health
care industry.
(5) A health center board member may not be an
employee of the center, or spouse or child, parent,
brother or sister by blood or marriage of such an
employee. The CEO may be a non-voting, ex-officio
member of the board.
(6) The health center bylaws or other internal
governing rules must prescribe the process for selection
and removal of all governing board members. This
selection process must ensure that the governing board
is representative of the health center patient population.
The selection process in the bylaws or other rules is
subject to approval by HRSA.
(b) The GCHCBD may amend their by-laws as may be
necessary for the conduct and administration of its activities
and the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties
conferred or imposed upon the CHC or the Board by this
Chapter.
(c) The GCHCBD may adopt such rules and
regulations pursuant to the Administrative Adjudication Act
as may be necessary for the exercise of the powers and
performance of the duties conferred or imposed upon the
CHC or the Board by this Chapter.
(d) Compensation. The compensation that members of
the GCHCBD may receive shall be the compensation
provided by Guam law.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
90
(e) The GCHCBD may enter into a co-applicant
agreement with another government of Guam agency for
purposes of meeting Health Center Program requirements.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998). Amended and
renamed by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3814. Duties of Guam Community Health Centers Board of
Directors.
The GCHCBD shall develop bylaws which specify the
responsibilities of the board, review and approve the plans and
programs of the Community Health Center and for that purpose
shall perform the following duties:
(a) review and approve the annual budget for the
Community Health Centers;
(b) review and approve the three (3) - year Plan and its
annual update for the Community Health Centers;
(c) periodically review available and needed services
provided by the Centers;
(d) promote the utilization and assistance of interested
persons, including recovered clients, volunteering their
service to the patients of the Center in whatever qualified
service they can provide; and
(e) review and comment on all new and renewed Federal
grants application.
(f) Shall approve by resolution all expenditures
allowed in § 3811 of this Chapter greater than Five Thousand
Dollars ($5,000);
(g) may approve by resolution a Memorandum of
Understanding between the Community Health Centers and
the Department of Revenue and Taxation to garnish income
tax refunds of recipients of products and services rendered by
the Community Health Centers who have not fulfilled their
payment obligation for said products and services. The
Board shall adopt a policy to govern the referral of such tax
refund garnishment requests to the Department of Revenue
and Taxation.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
91
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:2 (Aug. 14, 1998). Subsections (f) and
(g) added by P.L. 30-108:4 (Mar. 12, 2010).Amended and renamed by P.L.
38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
2012 NOTE: In maintaining the general codification scheme of the GCA
the Compiler changed the hierarchy of subsections beginning with
“Numbers” to “Lowercase Letters” in this chapter.
§ 3815. Transition to Full Autonomy.
A three (3) year transition period shall commence upon
enactment of this Act, during which the GCHC shall work toward
full administrative and operational independence. Upon
completion of the transition period, all duties, authorities, and
resources currently administered by the Department of Public
Health and Social Services (DPHSS) under the Guam Community
Health Centers Program, pursuant to Article 8, Chapter 3 of Title
10, Guam Code Annotated, shall be fully transferred to the GCHC
as established under this Chapter.
(a) The GCHC shall directly apply for federal grants and
assume responsibility for all federal compliance, program
administration, and service delivery functions for the program.
(b) All real and personal property, facilities, equipment,
supplies, and financial assets allocated to the Guam Community
Health Centers Program under DPHSS shall be transferred to the
CHC.
(c) All employees assigned to the Guam Community Health
Centers Program under DPHSS shall be transferred to the GCHC.
Transferred personnel shall retain their current employment
status, salaries, accrued benefits, and rights under applicable
government employment laws.
(d) The current bylaws shall remain in effect for twelve (12)
months or until new bylaws can be adopted, whichever comes
first.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, the
Department of Administration (DOA), shall provide interim
technical assistance to the GCHC, in the following areas:
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
92
(1) Developing and implementing its own financial
management system, including accounting, payroll, and
other internal fiscal controls.
(2) Establishing a human resource management
system for hiring.
(3) Assist the GCHC in developing and adopting
procurement rules and procedures consistent with applicable
government and federal guidelines.
(f) All contracts’ agreements, and memoranda of
understanding or agreement related to the Guam Community
Health Centers Program shall remain in effect unless terminated
by the GCHC.
(g) Upon request by the GCHC and with notification
submitted to I Maga’hågan/Maga’låhen Guåhan and I
Liheslaturan Guåhan, the transition period may be extended for
one (1) year at a time, not to exceed a total of three (3) additional
years. Any request for extension shall include a status report on
transition progress and a revised timeline for completion.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998), entitled “Repeal.”
Amended and renamed by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3816. Repeal .
Executive Order Nos. 70-25 and 86-05 pertaining to the
Southern Regional Community Health Center are hereby
repealed.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998) entitled “Effective
Date.” Amended and renamed by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3817. Effective Date.
The provisions contained in this Act shall take effect upon
enactment.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 24-248:3 (Aug. 14, 1998) entitled
“Severability.” Amended and renamed by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
§ 3818. Severability.
If any of the provisions of this Act or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance are held invalid, such invalidity
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
93
shall not affect any other provision or application of this Act,
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this Act are
severable.
SOURCE: Added by P.L. 38-097:2 (Feb. 11, 2026).
----------
ARTICLE 9
GUAM EARLY LEARNING COUNCIL
SOURCE: Entire Article added by P.L. 31-062:2 (May 24, 2011).
§ 3901. Composition of Early Learning Council Membership.
§ 3902. Goals and Objectives of the Early Learning Council.
§ 3903. Roles and Responsibilities.
§ 3901. Composition of Early Learning Council Membership.
(a) Members of the Early Learning Council shall be
comprised of representatives from the following key child serving
agencies, including government agencies and private
organizations, directly and indirectly involved in supporting the
quality health care and education of children birth to eight (8) and
their families, to develop a coordinated, efficient, and cost-
effective Early Childhood Comprehensive System:
(1) the Parent Information Resource Center (PIRC);
(2) non-profit organizations providing services and
supports to children, birth to eight (8), and their families;
(3) private child care providers;
(4) the Guam Medical Society;
(5) the Department of Public Health and Social
Services;
(6) the Guam Department of Education- Head Start,
Early Intervention: Part C, Preschool Special Education: Part
B, Section 619;
(7) the Guam Behavioral Health and Wellness Center;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
94
(8) the Guam Department of Labor;
(9) the University of Guam;
(10) the Guam Community College;
(11) the Guam Memorial Hospital;
(12) Guam Legislative Committee Chairpersons,
including, but not limited to, the Committees on Education,
Health and Human Services;
(13) the Catholic Social Service;
(14) at a minimum, three (3) parent representatives, of
which at least one (1) is a parent/guardian or family member
of a person with developmental disabilities;
(15) the Mayors Council of Guam;
(16) Sanctuary, Inc.; and
(17) the Superior Court of Guam.
(b) Co-chairmanship of the Council will be shared between
the Governor’s designee and the Project Director of Project
Tinituhon, Guam's Early Childhood Comprehensive System. In
the event, however, of the completion of Project Tinituhon, the
second co-chairperson shall be selected by duly appointed Council
members.
2013 NOTE: P.L. 32-024:2 (May 6, 2013) renamed the Department of
Mental Health & Substance Abuse to the Guam Behavioral Health and
Wellness Center. Reference to the Department of Mental Health &
Substance Abuse was changed to Guam Behavioral Health and Wellness
Center pursuant to P.L. 32-024:4.
§ 3902. Goals and Objectives of the Early Learning Council.
(a) The Council has the following as its goals:
(1) to increase supports and services for young
children and their families by strengthening cross-agency
coordination, involving public and private entities, to ensure
delivery of comprehensive services for young children and
their families; and
(2) to expand and refine Guam’s Policy Agenda for
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
95
Early Learning- Birth to Eight (8).
(b) The Council has the following objectives to support
these goals:
(1) to strengthen collaboration among governance
entities that oversee and coordinate subsystems;
(2) to leverage funding streams to maximize resources;
(3) to develop and implement a mechanism for cross-
agency data collection for monitoring and reporting;
(4) to create cross-agency standards for child and
family outcomes;
(5) to define professional development structures to
ensure an appropriately skilled systems workforce; and
(6) to expand awareness of and access to parent
education and family supports.
§ 3903. Roles and Responsibilities.
The Council will oversee and ensure the effective and
efficient collaboration within Guam’s Early Childhood
Comprehensive System and is empowered to:
(a) make recommendations on the most effective policy
direction and methods to improve the coordination, quality,
and delivery of quality health care and education services for
young children on Guam;
(b) critically examine and prioritize funding in support
of child and family outcomes;
(c) promote and support the acquisition of funding
opportunities, through government and private organizations,
in support of the overall vision and mission of the Early
Childhood Comprehensive System;
(d) provide input to the Strategic Management Team of
Guam’s Early Childhood Comprehensive System to ensure
the collaboration and integration of data collection and
evaluation, leveraging of resources and funding, and public
awareness and education on the importance of early
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
96
childhood;
(e) provide the Governor and Legislature with an annual
“State of Early Childhood Health and Education on Guam”
Brief;
(f) establish policies and procedures for the efficient and
effective decision-making processes in support of their
responsibilities;
(g) regularly review goals and objectives to ensure they
are responsive and relevant to the evolving needs of Guam’s
youngest children and their families; and
(h) carry out the responsibilities mandated and outlined
in the national legislation, “Improving Head Start for School,
Readiness Act of 2007” (P.L. 110-134), Section 642B(b) and
others assigned by the Governor of Guam.
2015 NOTE: Subsection designations were altered to adhere to the
Compiler’s general codification scheme in accordance to the authority
granted by 1 GCA § 1606.
----------
ARTICLE 10
GUAM COUNCIL ON CHILD DEATH REVIEW
AND PREVENTION (CCDRP)
SOURCE: Article 10 added by P.L. 32-030:2 (May 10, 2013).
§ 31001. Short Title.
§ 31002. Definistions.
§ 31003. Access to Information.
§ 31004. Exception.
§ 31005. Use of Child Death Review Information and Records.
§ 31006. Immunity from Liability.
§ 31007. Funding Authorization.
§ 31001. Short Title.
This Act may be cited as the “Child Death Review and
Prevention Act of 2013.”
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
97
§ 31002. Definitions.
(a) As used in this Article:
(1) Child means a person less than eighteen years of
age.
(2) Family means:
(A) each legal parent;
(B) the natural/biological mother;
(C) the natural/biological father;
(D) each parent’s spouse or former spouses;
(E) each sibling or person related by
consanguinity or marriage;
(F) each person residing in the same dwelling
unit; and
(G) any other person who, or legal entity that, is a
child’s legal or physical custodian or guardian, or who
is otherwise responsible for the child’s care, other than
the authorized agency that assumes such a legal status
or relationship with the child, as defined under § 4202,
Article 2, Chapter 4, Title 19, Guam Code Annotated.
(3) Council on Child Death Review and Prevention
(CCDRP) means the Council members who are
multidisciplinary and multiagency representatives appointed
by I Maga’lahen Guåhan [Governor of Guam] and any other
entity/representative invited by the Director or the Director’s
designated representatives as appropriate for each child death
review, to include, at a minimum:
(A) Department of Public Health and Social
Services:
(i) Director, or the Director’s designated
representatives;
(ii) Bureau of Family Health and Nursing
Services – Maternal and Child Health;
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
98
(iii) Bureau of Social Services
Administration – Child Protective Services;
(iv) Emergency Medical Services; and
(v) Office of Vital Statistics;
(B) Medical Examiner, or designee;
(C) Department of Mental Health and Substance
Abuse;
(D) Guam Police Department;
(E) Guam Early Learning Council;
(F) Attorney General of Guam, or designee;
(G) Guam Memorial Hospital Authority;
(H) Local Pediatrician;
(I) Military Representative;
(J) Parent/Community Stakeholder; and
(K) I Liheslaturan Guåhan (the Guam
Legislature) Chairperson of the Committee on Health
and Human Services, or designee.
(4) Child death review information means information
regarding the child and child’s family, including, but not
limited to:
(A) social, medical, and legal histories;
(B) death and birth certificates;
(C) law enforcement investigative data;
(D) medical examiner or coroner investigative
data;
(E) parole and probation information and records;
(F) information and records of social service
agencies;
(G) educational records; and
(H) health/mental health care institution
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
99
information.
(5) Department means the Department of Public
Health and Social Services.
(6) Director means the Director of the Department of
Public Health and Social Services, or the Director’s
designated representatives.
(7) Provider of medical care means any health/mental
health practitioner who provide, or a facility through which
is provided, any medical evaluation or treatment, including
dental and mental health evaluation or treatment.
(8) Service provider(s) means any
practitioner/provider who provides, or a facility through
which it is provided, any social and legal services.
§ 31003. Access to Information.
(a) Upon written request of the Director, all providers of
social, medical, and legal services, and local agencies, shall
disclose to the Department, and those individuals appointed by the
Director to participate in the review of child death, child death
review information regarding the circumstances of a child’s death
so that the Department may conduct a multidisciplinary and
multiagency review of child deaths.
(b) To the extent that this Section conflicts with other state
confidentiality laws, this Section shall prevail.
§ 31004. Exception.
Information regarding an ongoing civil or criminal
investigation shall be disclosed at the discretion of the applicable
local or federal law enforcement agency.
§ 31005. Use of Child Death Review Information and
Records.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Article, all child
death review information acquired by the Department during its
review of child deaths pursuant to this Article, is confidential and
may only be disclosed as necessary to carry out the purposes of
this Article.
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
100
(b) Child death review information and statistical
compilations of data that do not contain any information that
would permit the identification of any person shall be public
records.
(c) The CCDRP shall submit a report of child death review
information and statistical compilations of data that do not contain
any information that would permit the identification of any person
to I Liheslaturan Guåhan (the Guam Legislature) on an annual
basis.
(d) No individual participating in the Department’s
multidisciplinary and multiagency review of a child’s death may
be questioned in any civil or criminal proceeding regarding
information presented in or opinions formed as a result of a child
death review meeting. Nothing in this Subsection shall be
construed to prevent a person from testifying to information
obtained independently of the Department’s multidisciplinary and
multiagency review of a child’s death, or which is public
information, or where disclosure is required by law or court order.
(e) Child death review information held by the Department
as a result of child death reviews conducted under this Article are
not subject to subpoena, discovery, or introduction into evidence
in any civil or criminal proceeding, except that child death review
information otherwise available from other sources is not immune
from subpoena, discovery, or introduction into evidence through
those sources solely because they were provided as required by
this Article.
§ 31006. Immunity from Liability.
All agencies and individuals participating in the review of
child deaths pursuant to this Article shall not be held civilly or
criminally liable for providing the information required under this
Article.
§ 31007. Funding Authorization.
Funding to implement and conduct the provisions and
activities authorized pursuant to this Article shall be expended
from the annual fiscal year appropriation to the Office of Vital
COL 2026-04-23
10 GCA HEALTH AND SAFETY
CH. 3. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
101
Statistics, and/or from the Office of Vital Statistics Revolving
Fund (Title 10 GCA, Chapter 3, Article 2, § 3227.1).
----------
COL 2026-04-23