Skip to main content
Judicial Branch of California
Index: All Pages
Change your child's name to match their gender identity (when all parents sign the request)
To start the process of legally changing your child’s name to match their gender identity, you fill out court forms.
⚠ ️ These instructions are only if all parents will sign the petition. You need to follow different instructions if 1 or more parents won't sign the request .
↗ ️ All court form links open in a new tab.
PRINT
EMAIL
Enter your email
We'll only use this email to send this link
TEXT
Enter your mobile number
Ten digit mobile number starting with the area code (e.g. 4158654200)
Select your mobile carrier
Select your mobile carrier Boost Mobile Cricket Wireless Alltel Google Fi MetroPCS AT&T Republic Wireless Sprint T-Mobile Verizon U.S. Cellular Virgin Mobile
We'll only use this mobile number to send this link
Fill out forms
Fill out these forms:
Petition for Change of Name to Conform to Gender Identity (form NC-200)
How to fill out item 3 if more than two parents are signing form NC-200
Sometimes more than two parents need to sign form NC-200. This can happen when a child has more than two legal parents . For example, a child may have two biological parents and one adoptive parent, or a judge decided a child has more than 2 legal parents.
If more than two parents are signing, follow these steps:
1. In item 3, check "Other" and write the number of parents signing, like "three parents."
2. On page 2, check "Add additional signature lines for additional petitioners."
3. Fill out form MC-025 . Have each additional parent sign, print their name, and add the date.
4. Attach the completed form MC-025 to form NC-200.
Decree Changing Name (200 Series) (form NC-230)
Civil Case Cover Sheet (form CM-010)
💵 You will need to pay a fee when you file the forms ($435 - $450). If you can't afford the fee, fill out another form to ask for a fee waiver ↗ ️ (link opens in a new tab).
📌 If you prefer, you can use an online program to fill the forms out. You'll have to print the forms to file them with the court, or, if your court allows it, you can file them online (e-file). Check your local court's website to see if they allow e-filing.
Fill out forms online
⚠ ️ Starting July 1, 2026, courts will automatically keep your petition and related court records private in most cases. If you filed before July 1, 2026, you can still ask the court to make your records private .
Find out if you have any local forms to fill out
Some courts also have local forms you have to use.
Check with your court clerk’s office or your court's website , or talk to your self-help center ↗ ️to ask if they have any local forms you need to use.
Your self-help center may also be able to review your forms before you file them.
Make copies
Make at least 2 copies of all of your forms.
When you file them, the court will keep the original and return the copies to you, stamped.
Keep one of the copies for yourself and give copies your child’s other parents.
Once you’ve completed the forms, you’ll file them with the court clerk.
Go back to an overview
Return to an overview of the whole process for legally changing the name of a child to match their gender identity when both parents are filing together.
Send this page to yourself
Enter your email
We'll only use this email to send this link
Go to the next step
Get step-by-step instructions for filing your forms with the court.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
did this information help you with your case?
Great! Anything you can share about what made it helpful?
Sorry to hear that! What would make this more helpful?
Any Additional Feedback?
Email (optional)
This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
Leave this field blank
Was this helpful?
success alert banner:
Have a question about Name change?
Look for a "Chat Now" button in the right bottom corner of your screen. If you don’t see it, disable any pop-up/ad blockers on your browser.