Defending everyone&#039;s rights and freedoms.
Join our email list for updates.
The Latest
Event | In-Person & Virtual
Election Observer Trainings
For years, the ACLU has been engaged in election protection efforts, working to ensure easy, fair, and safe access to the ballot box.
This year, that work will be more important than ever – and we need your help.
Will you join our Election Protection Team?
Election observers will play a crucial role in monitoring polling places for issues affecting voters, ensuring there is no voter disenfranchisement, and tracking any problems that can be fixed for future elections. You don't have to have any specific expertise – we'll train you! The only requirement is that you're not a candidate for office and that you're available for at least a two-hour shift on Tuesday, November 3, during the general election.
We'll be hosting trainings across the state – and online. Follow the links below to register for the training you would like to attend.
Oct 07, 2026 | 7:00 PM
Event | In-Person
Know Your Voting Rights Training - Rapid City
Voting is a fundamental right of our democracy. The decisions made in city halls, state legislatures, the United States Congress and every other level of government affect the lives of all South Dakotans.
But voting loses its impact when people don’t participate.
As we face unprecedented attacks on the right to vote at all levels of government, we must protect the power of each individual voter. The ACLU of South Dakota is laser-focused on ensuring that every eligible voter can vote, that ballots are fairly counted, that elections are properly certified, and that the will of voters is respected.
That’s why we're hosting a Know Your Voting Rights Training in Rapid City to ensure voters feel empowered to vote and know what to do if they face issues at the ballot box.
Join us Saturday, October 10 from 2 to 4 p.m. MT at the Catalyst Theater, located at 513 7th Street in Rapid City. We'll be providing food, beverages, free swag, and most importantly, education about voter registration and voting.
The right to vote, after all, is the cornerstone of our democracy and the fundamental right upon which all other civil liberties rest, and we’ll always work to protect it for every eligible South Dakotan.
Register for our Know Your Voting Rights Training at the link below.
Oct 10, 2026 | 2:00 PM (MT)
News & Commentary
We Sued to Protect South Dakotans’ Right to Vote. We’re Not Done.
Samantha Chapman explains the latest win for voting rights in South Dakota and our next steps to remove barriers to the ballot.
Resource
South Dakota Voter Hub
Our democracy works best when all eligible voters participate and have their voices heard. Here’s everything you need to know about casting your ballot this year.
Press Releases
Sep 18, 2026
After Legal Back-and-Forth and Months of Confusing Administration of Documentation Laws, South Dakota Fixed its Notices to Voters
Federal Judge Emphasizes Voters Should be ‘Correctly and Truthfully Informed About Their Federal-Only Voter Status’
Sep 9, 2026
Pro-Voter Coalition to Argue in U.S. District Court on Friday in Challenge to Implementation of South Dakota’s Voter Registration Law
The plaintiffs are asking the court for expeditated preliminary relief in advance of the 2026 general election.
Aug 24, 2026
Pro-Voter Coalition Sues South Dakota Over Confusing Administration of Documentation Law
The case seeks to ensure South Dakota’s administration of a new voter registration requirement complies with federal law.
Issues We're Monitoring
Criminal Legal Reform
Free Speech
Reproductive Freedom
Smart Justice
Voting Rights
View All Issues
Make an impact
Act
Today, years of hard-fought civil liberty protections are under threat.
To influence lawmakers, we need everyone to get involved.
Petition
Join the Movement: Tell ALPRs in your community to "Get the Flock Out!"
Act now
Defend Trans Rights: No Place for LGBTQ+ Hate
Send message
Action {{ slotProps.activeSlide }} of
2
Stay Informed
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement .
English