English
Spanish
Get Legal Help
Legal Topics
Housing
Family and Safety
Money and Estate
Military, Immigration, and Employment
Driving and Expungement
Other Legal Issues
Information and Forms
Events
About
Mission
Who We Are
Donate
Partner Resources
Filing Fee Frequently Asked Questions
What is a filing fee?
To tell a court that you want to start a legal case, you file forms with the court. When the forms that start a legal case are filed with the court, the court charges a filing fee.
How to File Forms with the Court in Person
How to Electronically File Forms with the Court
How much is a civil court filing fee?
The cost to file a new case in civil court: $157 . If you want the sheriff to serve the papers on the other parties, the cost to file a new case in civil court with sheriff service of process: $185 .
What if I cannot afford a filing fee?
Under Indiana law, you do not have to pay a filing fee if you meet certain requirements. A filing fee waiver asks the court to waive (not charge) a filing fee because you cannot afford to pay it. See &#8220;How to File Forms with the Court&#8221; to find the filing fee waiver instructions and form.
How to File Forms with the Court in Person
How to Electronically File Forms with the Court
Will the court charge a filing fee every time a document is filed?
No. In general, a filing fee is only charged when a case is started (the first forms are filed).
Free and Low Cost Legal Help
Easily find organizations, services, or legal clinics available near you. Simply enter your zip code or county to get started.
Get Started
info
Representing yourself in court should not be taken lightly, and there are many reasons why hiring an attorney is a good idea. We suggest that even if you use the forms provided on this site that you still talk to an attorney before submitting the forms to a court to get the best result possible. Using the forms and legal information on this site does not make you a client of Indiana Legal Help nor does Indiana Legal Help accept responsibility or liability for action taken by users of this information. Communication with Indiana Legal Help is not protected by attorney client privilege or the work product doctrine—that means information shared with Indiana Legal Help may be admissible in court.