Safety Exit
866 456 4995
DONATE
APPLY
Menu
WE HAVE
Compassion for our clients.
APPLY ONLINE
Support the LSA John Lewis Fellows
Your contribution allows recent law graduates to train for a career in public interest and social justice law.
DONATE
We provide civil legal aid for people in need.
The LSA law firm provides free, client-centered civil legal advocacy to low-income Alabamians and collaborates with others across the state and nation to find solutions to systemic issues caused by poverty.
Our offices are located in Anniston/Gadsden, Birmingham, Dothan, Huntsville, Mobile, Montgomery, Selma and Tuscaloosa. LSA offices handle civil cases only. Each office has lawyers licensed to practice in Alabama and other staff who know how to help low-income people resolve their legal problems.
To learn more about our service areas and access legal self-help resources, visit: www.alabamalegalhelp.org
Since we are a registered 501(c)(3) organization, your contribution is tax deductible. Legal Services Alabama is funded in part by the Legal Services Corporation. As a condition of the funding it receives from LSC, it is restricted from engaging in certain activities in all of its legal work including work supported by other funding sources. Legal Services Alabama may not expend any funds for any activity prohibited by the Legal Services Corporation Act, 42 U.S.C. 2996 et seq. or by Public Law 104-134. Public Law 104-134 § 504(d) requires that notice of these restrictions be given to all funders of programs funded by the Legal Services Corporation. For a copy of these laws or for any other information or clarifications, please contact Legal Services Alabama.
Annual Impact Video
Our core Service Areas
We Aim To Provide Expert
Advice & Quality Legal Services.
To learn more, select a service area below.
Domestic Violence
Legal Services Alabama helps survivors of domestic and family violence with the following:
Legal protection from abuse
Child custody and child support
Safe housing resources
Safety plans with employers
Food Stamps and other benefits
Legal Services Alabama serves survivors of domestic violence statewide by helping provide the following:
Resources to stabilize daily life for you and your children
Information about ways to become self-sufficient
Advice and support to help you make lasting changes in your life
Community partnerships with other agencies and organizations to widen your network of services
Education to raise awareness about issues related to domestic and family violence
Public Benefits
Legal Services Alabama helps people throughout the state when they have questions or problems with these kinds of public benefits:
Social Security
Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
Food Stamps (SNAP)
Family Assistance
Unemployment Compensation
Working with LSA can help you:
Understand your legal rights and responsibilities
Make your family economically stable
Keep your home
Housing Issues
Our staff can give you legal help with the following housing issues:
Eviction
Foreclosures
Utility problems
Housing discrimination
Repair problems
Housing counseling
Every day, our legal staff helps people all over Alabama with housing issues.
We work to ––
Prevent homelessness
Preserve and expand affordable housing
Promote family, social and economic stability
Reduce the effects of poverty
Consumer Protection
Legal Services Alabama helps people throughout the state solve their legal problems:
Payday lending abuse
Defective vehicles
Wage garnishment
Every day, our legal staff helps people:
Find relief from high-interest payday loans
Defend against unlawful repossession
Protect against unlawful collection
Work out debt repayment plans
Improve financial literacy and stability
Build and retain assets
Change conditions, and change lives!
Additional Services
People We Serve
Veterans
Elderly
Services We Provide
&#8211; Heirs Property & Estate Planning
&#8211; Education
&#8211; Community Re-entry (Voter Rights Restoration Education)
&#8211; Low Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC)
&#8211; Disaster Relief
Services we provide
Apply Online
Legal Counsel & Advice
LSA provides timely legal counsel and advice.
Representation
LSA represents eligible clients in critical legal matters—judicial and administrative.
Community Education
LSA provides community education in regard to your rights and responsibilities.
Legal Self-Help
LSA develops and distributes legal self-help materials and forms.
GET IN TOUCH
866 456 4995
Call Center Hours
Mon- Fri | 8:30a-4:30p
P.O. Box 20787
Montgomery, AL 36120
NEWS UPDATES
Rural Summer Corps Fellowship Spotlight: PUBLIC SERVICE IS FOUNDATIONAL
Read More
Education Services at LSA
Read More
Sign up for our newsletteR
Facebook-f
Twitter
Youtube
Linkedin
SMS Privacy Policy
SMS Terms of Service
LSA DOES NOT DISCRIMINATE ON THE BASIS OF SEX (INCLUDING PREGNANCY, CHILDBIRTH, AND RELATED MEDICAL CONDITIONS) OR SEXUAL ORIENTATION, RACE, COLOR, RELIGION OR CREED, NATIONAL ORIGIN OR ANCESTRY, AGE (40 AND OLDER), DISABILITY, POLITICAL AFFILIATION, GENETIC INFORMATION, GENDER IDENTITY, VETERAN STATUS OR ANY OTHER CONSIDERATION PROHIBITED BY LAW.
Leave this site safely
You can quickly leave this website by clicking the Safety Exit button below.
To browse this site safely, clear your browser history regularly.
Ok
English Español
Tiếng Việt
中文 (简体)
한국어