Skip to main content
Law Help NY
Search
How do I change my name?
Guide | LawHelpNY
The basics
Marriage
Divorce
In court
You can use a new name whenever you want in your daily life. But government agencies or businesses (such as the DMV, the Social Security Administration, and airlines) will not accept your new name unless it is official.
You may also be required to submit a copy of the name change order to a court that issued a child or spousal support order, or others, if a court or government agencies request it in writing and provide a reason.
In New York, there are 3 ways to officially change your name:
Marriage
Divorce
Filing a court order with a New York State Court
Click on the tabs above to get more information about each way to officially change your name.
To change your last names or middle name, enter your new names on the marriage license application. You can take your spouse's last name, your spouse can take your last name, or you can choose a new last name that both of you will use.
Keep in mind:
The new last name must be a combination of all or part of both of your existing last names, either by adding a hyphen or a space between the two, but it cannot be an entirely new last name.
If you are changing your middle name, it can only be your existing last name or your spouse's current last name. You cannot choose a new middle name.
You cannot change your first name on the marriage license application.
You and your spouse do not need to take the same last names.
Your marriage certificate will be proof of your new name and can help you change your name on other identification documents, such as your social security card or driver's license.
Learn more about how to obtain a marriage license from the New York State Department of Health (link in English).
During a divorce, you can request the court to restore your middle name or last name that you had before the marriage. Once you request a name change, you will receive a divorce judgment/order from the court that will state whether you can use your previous name and will act as a legal name change. (The court cannot change it to a new middle name or last name that you have never had.)
The court may require you to send a copy of your name change order to:
A court that issued a child or spousal support order.
Others, if the court instructs you in writing and provides a reason.
Use the divorce judgment to change your name on other identification documents, such as your social security card or driver's license.
Learn more about how to get a divorce in New York .
To change your name for a reason other than marriage or divorce, you can apply to a New York State Court. The court generally approves the name change unless you intend to do something illegal, such as deceiving someone or hiding from debts.
To file a petition with the New York State Court:
You must be at least 18 years old
You must not be in prison, on probation, or on parole if you have been convicted of certain felonies
You must live in New York State.
If you are in prison, on probation, or on parole, you will need to go through different processes with the State to change your name.
What You’ll Need
To ask the court to change your name, fill out and submit a Name Change Petition. This must be filled out and signed in front of a Notary Public.
You can obtain this form online at NYCourts.gov . There is also a free and official name change form available online. (All links are in English.)
You’ll need:
A certified copy of your birth certificate. If you were born in New York City, you can obtain your birth certificate from the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene . If you were born outside NYC, you can obtain it from the New York State Department of Health .
Proof of your identity and address.
A court fee ($210 in the Supreme and County Courts; $65.00 in the New York City Civil Court. If you cannot afford the fee, ask the clerk for an application to file for free.)
You will also need to provide the court with a lot of information as part of your name change petition, such as:
The reason you are requesting a name change
If you have been convicted of a crime, the type of crime, and the time served
If you have declared bankruptcy, and the terms of your bankruptcy
If there are any judgments or liens against you or your property
If you are involved in a lawsuit
If you pay child or spousal support
Where and How to File
File a name change petition in the County Court or Supreme Court of the county where you live. Find the nearest court to you using the court locator on NYCourts.gov .
To file the name change petition:
Take all your forms to the court and ask the clerk to file them.
The clerk will give you an index number. Write this number in the top right corner of your Name Change Petition and name change order.
Then, take your forms to the Supreme Court Clerk’s Office.
Security and Privacy
If you want your name change to be private, ask the court or county clerk how to seal the record. You will need to provide a reason. For example, you need it for safety reasons or due to domestic violence. When the court seals a record, no one can see it unless they obtain a court order.
What Happens Next
Within 2-3 weeks after filing your documents, the court will mail you:
A court order allowing you to change your name. The name change is complete when you file the court order with the county clerk.
A notice denying your petition. You can contact the court clerk for information on how to appeal.
The forms and more information on how to change your name are available at NYCourts.gov .
Last Reviewed: July 30, 2024