802-860-7812
info@pridecentervt.org
Health &#038; Wellness
The Health and Wellness Program creates programming that mitigate health disparities specific to LGBTQ+ Vermonters. The Health and Wellness team works closely with the Vermont Department of Health on various projects, including: HIV prevention, education, and testing, cancer screening access and support, tobacco cessation, and LGBTQ+ Best Practices training for healthcare providers.
Email Us With Any Questions
HEALTH & WELLNESS PROGRAMS
HIV PREVENTION
Pride Center of Vermont currently offers rapid HIV testing that is free and fast! Get your results in just 20 minutes! Our weekly drop-in testing hours are every Tuesday and Thursday 12pm – 6pm.
HIV testing appointments are available outside of normal drop-in testing hours. You can also ask us about setting up an off-site testing party at your home or alternate location!
For more info or to make an appointment contact:
Richard Elliott or Kell Arbor at 802-860-7812 or email kell@pridecentervt.org
GLAM
GLAM is part of the nationwide MPowerment Project, which is a model HIV prevention program that has been specifically designed to address the needs of young gay and bisexual men.
Check out the GLAM page for more information.
TOBACCO CESSATION
Do you use tobacco?
Is this the year you finally quit tobacco?
Would you like some tips, tools, and community to support you in quitting? We can help!
Contact Taylor at Taylor@pridecentervt.org .
CANCER SCREENINGS
Get connected to You First, a program through the Vermont Department of Health, which offers personalized support to pay for and connect eligible Vermonters to breast, cervical and heart screenings, diagnostic tests and heart-healthy lifestyle programs.
Click here to learn more >
PRIDE ON THE MOVE
Pride on the Move is a group for LGBTQ-identified community members to come together and enjoy movement and body awareness! Originally just a running group hosted through the Pride Center of Vermont&#8217;s Health and Wellness program, we have decided to explore other activities such as walking, biking, hiking, meditating, dancing, and any others that you all would like to try out!
Contact Travis Miller for more information.
Check out the Facebook group here!
number of safe and affirming healthcare providers currently participating in the Vermont Diversity Healthcare Project
LGBTQ+ Health Disparities
Research suggests that LGBTQ+ individuals face health disparities linked to societal stigma, discrimination, and denial of their civil and human rights.
See the stats
Got 'em? Screen 'em!
Our nationally-recognized cancer screening campaign removes the gender from health assessments and focuses on the anatomy we possess instead.
See the campaign