0
Transgender & Gender Non-conforming Program
TGNC Social Events:
See our calendar of events for the most up-to-date information.
TGNC Support Group, Every Thursday:
In Person 6:00-8:00 pm . Open peer support groups for any adult (18+) identifying as transgender or Gender Non-Conforming. A welcoming space to build community and talk about experiences as a TGNC individual.
Parents of TGNC Littles Support Group, 3rd Monday of the Month: In Person 5:30 - 6:30 pm . This is a support group for parents of TGNC Littles (ages 4-12). While the parents meet to gain support from other families in a similar situation, the littles will meet in the Project Q space under the supervision of Center staff to interact with kids like them. The parents and kids are just down the hall from each other for everyone's comfort level.
Gemini Gender Support Group, 2nd Saturday of the Month 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm. A group for those who identify as two-gendered or Gemini gender. A welcoming space to build community and talk about experiences as a TGNC individual.
Program Services
Name Change Process. The guides below can help people through the name change process in Milwaukee County. If you want to work with a law firm for a pro-bono name change or need clarity about the process, fill out the referral form below:
Gender/Name Change Referrals Form
Name Change Coordinator Ren(they/zey), namechange@mkelgbt.org
Name Change Guides:
2024 Wisconsin Legal Name & Gender Marker Change Guide
Milwaukee County Name & Gender Marker Change Forms PDF
The City of Milwaukee Name Change Guide
Medical Support:
Connecting to affirming doctors and communicating with medical providers and insurance to receive proper care.
Gender-Affirming Surgery Support:
If you want to obtain a letter for gender-affirming surgery, complete our referral form and click “submit” at the bottom of the form ( REFERRAL FORM )
There are several grants and scholarships available that financially assist with gender-affirming surgeries. Please note: There is a waitlist due to the high volume of letter requests.