Help us better serve West Virginians. Take our Community Survey!
X
Apply For Help
There are two ways to apply for help: by phone or online.
Get Help > Apply For Help
Before applying, learn more about the types of cases we typically handle, the intake process, and how to prepare . We also offer a helpful video series for clients.
Legal Aid of WV services are free. We do not charge clients, but some court filing fees may be required.
Apply By Phone
866-255-4370
Phone Application Hours:
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
&#8211; 8:30 am to 3:30 pm
Tuesday
&#8211; 8:30 am to 12:30 pm
If you have a hearing impairment, please use the 7-1-1 WV Relay .
Language interpreters are available for limited or non-English speakers who apply by phone. Para los que prefieren hablar en su lengua materna, proporcionamos intérpretes. Por favor, llámenos y díganos su idioma. Colocaremos a Usted en espera por algunos minutos y obtendremos un intérprete para la llamada. 866-255-4370.
Apply Online
Things to Know Before Applying Online :
You need a phone number where we can reach you.
We will call 2–3 times. If we can’t reach you, we’ll send a letter or email about how to call us back
Answer a few questions to see if you should apply online:
Online Intake Screening
Do you have a deadline in the next 10 days, like a court hearing or forms that must be turned in?
*
Yes
No
Please do not fill out this online form. Call us right away at 866-255-4370 so we can try to help you as fast as possible.
Are you calling about a criminal case (not including expungement )?
*
Yes
No
We are sorry, but Legal Aid of West Virginia cannot help with this problem.
We do not handle criminal cases. You may be able to get help from these places:
Public Defender&#8217;s Office: You might qualify for a public defender. Visit Public Defender Services for more information: Public Defender Services .
Lawyer Referral Service: This service helps people find lawyers who are taking new clients. Lawyers in West Virginia are not certified in special areas of law, but many have experience or interest in certain types of cases. If you use this service, you can meet with a lawyer for an initial visit for no more than $25 for the first 30 minutes . You can find this service online at wvlawyerreferral.org .
Are you calling about home foreclosure?
*
Yes
No
We are sorry, but Legal Aid of West Virginia cannot help with this problem.
We are not able to assist with foreclosure issues. You may be able to get help from:
Mountain State Justice (MSJ): MSJ gives free legal help to low income people who are having trouble with their mortgage or other loans, debt collectors, problems with a home or car they bought. To apply for help, please call 304-344-3144 .
You can also visit our website to watch our podcast about foreclosures .
Is the legal issue you are calling about child support?
*
No
Yes, and you are a veteran and/or receive WV WORKS
Yes (and the above does not apply)
We are sorry, but Legal Aid of West Virginia cannot help with this issue.
We are not able to assist with child support problems. You may be able to get help from the resources listed below:
Please visit our Legal Information website to find helpful information about child support and other family law topics.
Bureau of Child Support Enforcement (BSCE) : Can help with starting or changing a child support order, establishing paternity, enforcing child support orders, finding a parent who does not have custody, and collecting child support payments. You should contact your local BCSE office. To learn more or apply for help, visit: https://bcse.wv.gov
You may be eligible for services.
Apply Online
You may be eligible for services.
Apply Online
Submit
If you are human, leave this field blank.
&#916;
See tips on applying for help. >
See our Legal Information library. >
Are You Eligible? >
Stay up to date with Legal Aid West Virginia monthly newsletter for all the latest legal news, resources, and information.
Group category 19098
Legal Aid Website
First Name
First Name
Email address:
>" />
Leave this field empty if you&#039;re human: