SAFE EXIT
Do I qualify for
legal assistance?
In order to qualify for legal aid, you must meet certain income requirements, have a North Dakota legal issue, and complete an application.
Learn More
Who is LSND and what do we do?
Legal Services of North Dakota is a non-profit organization, providing legal assistance in a variety of matters to low income and elderly North Dakotans.
Legal Services of North Dakota is a grantee of the Legal Services Corporation and provides free legal assistance to low-income or elderly individuals. Legal Services of North Dakota does NOT charge clients for legal services. If you have received a request to pay for legal services or a notice to remit payment, please contact Legal Services of North Dakota directly and do NOT send payment.
Legal Services of North Dakota does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, disability or age in the delivery of services.

Donate
As a nonprofit organization, Legal Services of North Dakota (LSND) relies on contributions to continue providing free legal services to low-income persons and our many advocacy projects. Any donation, large or small, supports the vital role we play in the struggle for equal justice.
Donate Today!

Volunteer
There are several ways attorneys in private practice can help LSND’s program address the civil legal needs of low-income people in the state. Individual attorneys can volunteer to work with LSND in a program to match their interests.
Volunteer!

Apply for Assistance
Mon. &#8211; Thurs.,
9 am &#8211; 3 pm Central
Under age 60:
1-800-634-5263
Age 60+:
1-866-621-9886
Apply Online

Attorney Education
Legal Services of North Dakota provides opportunities throughout the year to continue education in their field and earn CLE credits.
LSND Attorney Education
Don't miss upcoming LSND Events

2026 ND Pro Bono Summit
Attorneys are invited to join LSND and SBAND in celebrating Pro Bonos, generating new ideas for North Dakota, and learning more about ways to contribute in North Dakota. Special thanks to SBAND as the co-sponsor. This program is anticipated to include 6 hours of CLE for ND.
Learn More!

LSND's Second Annual Gala
Save the date!
LSND is hosting the Second Annual Gala: Rock ‘n’ Roll to Justice on May 1, 2027 from 5 PM – 9 PM at Sixteen03 Event Space, Bismarck, ND. Sponsorship opportunities are available.
Learn More
Self Help Resources
Understanding Unique Challenges for LGBTQ+ Survivors
Jun 5, 2026 | VOCA
June is Pride Month, a time to celebrate the resilience, history, and diversity of LGBTQ+ communities. While Pride highlights progress and visibility, it also serves as an important reminder that individuals within LGBTQ+ communities can experience domestic violence,...
read more
Legal Services of North Dakota Secures $450,000 in Joint Funding to Transform Pro Bono Services Statewide
Feb 2, 2026 | Press Release
Bismarck, ND — Legal Services of North Dakota (LSND) has secured $450,000 in joint funding to launch a comprehensive, statewide transformation of pro bono legal services. The two-year initiative will be supported by a $350,000 investment from the IOLTA Commission and...
read more
Senior Legal Services
May 28, 2025 | Senior
Legal Services of North Dakota, (LSND) is a non-profit organization that provides legal help to disadvantaged elderly (Ages 60+) or low income North Dakotans. LSND assists with cases in the areas of Government Benefits, Family, Health, Consumer, Housing, Elderly Law...
read more
Veteran&#8217;s Success Story: A Veteran&#8217;s Home Saved
Apr 1, 2025 | Veteran Resources
On December 9th 2024, A Veteran who served in the United States Army from 1984 until 1990 had called Legal Services of North Dakota because he had received notice that his home he had lived in for over the past 10 years was scheduled for Sheriff’s auction due to a...
read more
April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month: Together, We Can Build Safer Communities
Apr 1, 2025 | VOCA
April marks Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM)—a time to uplift survivors, raise public awareness, and commit to ending sexual violence in all its forms. At Legal Services of North Dakota (LSND), we stand alongside survivors, advocates, and our incredible partners...
read more
LSND Receives Cy Pres Award to Support Access to Justice
Feb 14, 2025 | Press Release
Legal Services of North Dakota (LSND) is honored to be the recipient of a $21,163.33 cy pres award from the Metler v. First International Bank & Trust lawsuit. This generous award will help LSND continue its mission of providing essential legal services to...
read more
Know Your Rights: If ICE Visits Your Home
Jan 27, 2025 | Other
Information provided by ©2025 American Immigration Lawyers Association#AILAStandsWithImmigrants All people living in the United States, including undocumented immigrants, have certain U.S. Constitutional rights. If you are undocumented and immigration (ICE) agents...
read more
Wills
Dec 2, 2024 | Public Benefits
What is a Will? A will is a written document which provides for the disposition of a person’s property after death. It may be handwritten or typed. In North Dakota, any person of sound mind, 18 years of age or over, may dispose of his or her property by will.Two types...
read more
Filing for Divorce in North Dakota
Nov 29, 2024 | Public Benefits
How Can A Marriage Be Terminated In North Dakota? A marriage is terminated when one person dies or by a judgment of a district court. Divorces in North Dakota may be granted for the following reasons. 1. Adultery 2. Extreme cruelty 3. Willful desertion 4. Willful...
read more
Crime Victims Compensation
Nov 27, 2024 | Consumer
What is Crime Victims Compensation? Crime Victims Compensation is a grant program that is run by the North Dakota Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. More information about the program can be found here. Who Can Get Help? Crime Victims Compensation funds can...
read more
Legal Services of North Dakota (ND) receives $248,730 Technology Initiative Grant from LSC
Nov 26, 2024 | Press Release
Contact Carl RauscherDirector of Communications and Media Relationsrauscherc@lsc.gov202-295-1615Contact Us WASHINGTON— The Legal Services Corporation (LSC) announced today that it is awarding a Technology Initiative Grant (TIG) in the amount of $248,730 to Legal...
read more
Domestic Violence and the Workplace: How Employers Can Support Survivors
Nov 26, 2024 | VOCA
Domestic violence doesn’t stay at home—it often follows survivors into the workplace, impacting productivity, safety, and overall well-being. For many survivors, work is more than just a job; it can be a lifeline for financial independence and a safe space away from...
read more
Veteran&#8217;s Success Story
Nov 26, 2024 | Veteran Resources
Approximately two months into a deployment, a younger soldier encountered a significant challenge with his apartment management. A misunderstanding led the apartment company to initiate a forcible detainer action against him, mistakenly believing he had not paid his...
read more
Help! I Have Been Served An Order to Demolish My Flood Damaged Home
Nov 25, 2024 | Housing
What Rights Do I Have In My Private Property? A person has a right to exclude others from entering and using his/her private property. Does The Government Have Authority To Demolish My Flood Damaged Property? The United States and North Dakota Constitutions authorize...
read more
Help, My Power Has Been Shut Off!
Nov 22, 2024 | Housing
What Do I Do If My Utility Service is Shut Off? A utility controlled by the Public Service Commission (PSC) may shut off service if the customer is late in paying the bill. However, the customer must receive written notice before the utility service is shut off....
read more