TITLE 1: GOVERNMENT
DIVISION 2: EXECUTIVE BRANCH
§ 26018. Amendment of Vital Records.
(a) A certificate or report registered under this Act may be amended only in
accordance with this Act and regulations adopted by the State Agency to protect
the integrity and accuracy of vital records.
(b) A certificate or report that is amended under this section shall indicate that
it has been amended, except as otherwise provided in this section or by regula-
tion. A record shall be maintained which identifies the evidence upon which the
amendment was based, the date of the amendment, and the identity of the person
making the amendment. The State Agency shall prescribe by regulation the
conditions under which additions or minor corrections may be made to certifi-
cates or records within one year of the event without the certificate or record
indicating that it has been amended.
(c) Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of the CNMI Superior Court
changing the name of a person born in the CNMI and upon request of such
person or his or her parents, guardian, or legal representative, the Registrar shall
amend the certificate of birth of such individual to show the new name.
(d) Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of the CNMI Superior Court
indicating the sex of an individual born in the CNMI has been changed by
surgical procedure and whether such individual’s name has been changed, the
certificate of birth of such individual shall be amended as prescribed by regula-
tion.
(e) When an applicant does not submit the minimum documentation required
in the regulations for amending a vital record or when the Registrar has cause to
question the validity or adequacy of the applicant’s sworn statements or the
documentary evidence, and if the deficiencies are not corrected, the Registrar
shall not amend the vital record and shall advise the applicant of the reason for
this action and shall further advise the applicant of the right of appeal to the
CNMI Superior Court.
(f) When a certificate or report is amended under this section by the Registrar,
the Registrar shall report the amendment to any other custodian of the vital
record and their record shall be amended accordingly.
Source: PL 15-50, § 20.