Page 1 of 6 Form UJS-024
Rev. 04/2026
INSTRUCTIONS
Adult Name Change
Laws and rules regarding this process can be found at SDCL ch. 21‐37, SDCL 34‐25‐51,
and ARSD 44:09:05:02. These authorities have also been interpreted by the South
Dakota Supreme Court in various cases. It is up to you to decide whether and how you
use a lawyer in your case. The law allows you to do the case without a lawyer, which
is also known as proceeding pro se (pronounced “pro‐say”).
REQUESTING A NAME CHANGE IN SOUTH DAKOTA
• You may change your first, middle and/or last name. You may also seek to
amend your birth certificate to reflect the changed name, if granted by a
court.
• Once you file the verified petition, the case will be assigned a case number.
This number must be on all documents filed with the court.
• You should be aware that there may be costs associated with any required
publication of the notice of your name change.
If you file a Verified Petition for Adult Name Change without the assistance of an
attorney, you must complete all the forms necessary. The clerk of court’s office
cannot assist you in preparing any legal documents or advise you of the process.
However, you may contact the Legal Form Help Line at 1‐855‐784‐0004 or e-mail UJS
staff for help with forms at ujssrlhelp@ujs.state.sd.us If you have any questions of a
legal nature, please contact an attorney of your choosing.
READ ALL INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR TO FILLING OUT ANY OF THE FORMS.
These forms can be used only for ADULT name changes!
In order to legally change your name, you must file a Verified Petition For Adult Name
Change with the clerk of court’s in the county where you reside provided you have
resided there for more than six months. You will also be required to pay the civil case
filing fee. You will be referred to as the petitioner in this Adult Name Change
proceeding.
You must also submit a completed Civil Case filing Statement form (UJS-232) at the
time of filing your verified petition. You will only complete the top section of this form,
which is the “Information for Plaintiff/Petitioner/Applicant:” with your current
information. The box that has information for the defendant, you will leave blank.
Captions: All of the forms for this proceeding have a caption at the top of the form.
Page 2 of 6 Form UJS-024
Rev. 04/2026
Each form will be completed identically using the following instructions:
• On the top left, enter the name of the county where you are filing the Verified
Petition.
• On the top right, enter the judicial circuit number (First through Seventh) in which
the county lies. This information can be obtained from the clerk of court’s office
or on the UJS website.
• Enter your current legal name (first, middle, and last name) in the “(Current
Name)” blank.
• Enter your proposed first, middle, and last name in the “(Proposed Name)”
blank.
• The clerk of court’s office will give you a case number when you file the Verified
Petition. You must include the case number on all forms you file, which is
documented above the name of the form (File No. ).
FORM UJS-025: VERIFIED PETITION FOR ADULT NAME CHANGE
• Complete the caption as set forth in the Instructions on pages 1-2.
• Use the numbers below for completing the numbered paragraphs with the
same numbers in the Verified Petition.
Paragraph 1. Fill in your current legal first, middle, and last name.
Paragraph 2. Enter your first, middle, and last name as it appears on your birth
certificate.
Paragraph 3. Enter your date of birth.
Paragraph 4. Check what your gender was at birth.
Paragraph 5. Enter the city, county, and state where you were born. If you were
born out of the country, list the country where you were born.
Paragraph 6. Enter the first, middle, and maiden name of your mother, as it
appears on your birth certificate.
Paragraph 7. Enter the date of birth of your mother as well as the city, county and
state where she was born, if known.
Paragraph 8. Enter the full name of your father as it appears on your birth
certificate. If your father is not listed on your birth certificate, enter
“N/A.”
Paragraph 9. Enter the date of birth of your father as well as the city, county, and
state where he was born, if known.
Paragraph 10. Enter your current street address, city, and county name.
Paragraph 11. Enter the name of the South Dakota County where you currently
reside and have resided for the 6 months before filing this Verified
Petition.
Paragraph 12. Enter the reasons you want to change your name. This must be
completed or the Verified Petition will not be accepted.
Box 1: Mark if you are changing your name to protect
yourself from someone who made you a human trafficking
victim, check the first check box. Otherwise, leave blank.
Page 3 of 6 Form UJS-024
Rev. 04/2026
Box 2: Mark if you are changing your name to protect
yourself from someone who made you a victim of
domestic abuse, check the second box. Otherwise, leave
blank.
Paragraph 13. Nothing is required, just verification that you are not submitting this
Verified Petition for fraudulent or illegal purposes.
Paragraph 14. Enter your current name (first, middle, and last) on the first line and
your proposed name (first, middle, and last) on the second lines.
Paragraph 15. This entry is optional. Pursuant to SDCL 34-25-51 and relevant regulations
contained in ARSD 44:09:05:02, you are able to seek an amendment
to your birth certification if your current birth certificate reflects
incorrect information to your name. You may be required to prove
this by providing evidence of the incorrect information. If you do not
wish to amend you birth certificate, leave this portion blank.
• Date the Verified Petition with the day, month, year, and location
of where you are signing.
• On the first line, sign your first, middle, and last names.
• On the remaining lines, enter your personal information.
WARNING: By signing your name, you are telling the court that you are telling the truth
and that you have a good faith reason for your requests. If you are not telling the truth,
if you are misleading the court, or if you are serving or filing this document for an
improper purpose, the court could find you in contempt or you could be prosecuted
for not telling the truth.
All references to “your birth certificate” are to your CURRENT birth certificate.
FORM UJS-026: NOTICE OF HEARING FOR ADULT NAME CHANGE
Pursuant to SDCL 21-37-4, the general public generally needs to be provided notice of
your name change. This means that a notice must be published in the newspaper.
The only exceptions are if you are changing your name to protect yourself from
someone who has made you a victim of human trafficking or domestic abuse, as
provided in SDCL 21-37-5.2.
If neither exception applies to you, you must fill out, file, and publish the Notice of
Hearing for Adult Name Change (UJS-026). It must be published one time each week
for four successive weeks in any legal newspaper in the county where you reside. If
you are unsure whether a newspaper is considered to be a legal newspaper for your
county, contact the county Auditor’s Office.
To begin this process, you need to contact the clerk of court or court administrator’s
office and request that a hearing be scheduled approximately six weeks in the future.
When scheduling, make sure you have a copy of your filed Verified Petition to refer to.
Page 4 of 6 Form UJS-024
Rev. 04/2026
Additionally, make sure you allow enough time for publication and the receipt of the
newspaper-provided Affidavit of Publication prior to the hearing (described further
below). In order to do this, you should know the day of the week the newspaper has
to receive the Notice of Hearing for Adult Name Change by in order to begin
publication in the next circulation and in what form. It is suggested you ask about the
expense of publication as well so you are prepared for that expense in advance.
• Complete the caption as set forth in the Instructions on pages 1-2.
• In the Notice portion fill in your current name in the first blank--after “filed by”
and again on the second blank line after “name from”. Fill in your proposed
name on the third blank after “to.”
• The court clerk will provide you with a date and time, at least six weeks in the
future, for a hearing. Fill in the day, month, and year, followed by the time and
check am or pm.
• Enter the name of the Judge presiding over your case, the name of the county
the hearing is being held in and the name of the city the hearing is being held
in.
• A judge or clerk of court must sign the notice, not the petitioner.
Once you have filed the Notice of Hearing for Adult Name Change (UJS-026) with the
clerk of court, the clerk will give you a filed copy. You must publish this once each week
for four successive weeks in any legal newspaper of the county of petitioner's
residence. Once completed, the newspaper will provide you with an Affidavit of
Publication. You must file this Affidavit with the clerk of court office on or before the
day of the scheduled hearing.
If another hearing has to be scheduled because enough time was not allowed for
publication, the court may order that another Notice of Hearing for Adult Name
Change be published again. This would be an additional expense for you. You will not
be refunded any fees or expenses.
FORM UJS-027: ORDER FOR ADULT NAME CHANGE
Before the hearing date, you must prepare the Order for Adult Name Change.
PAGE 1
1. Complete the caption as set forth in the Instructions on pages 1-2.
2. Fill in the day, month, and year of your hearing.
3. Fill in your current name (first, middle and last) following “the Petitioner.”
4. Fill in the county where you currently reside and the county where you resided
for the six months prior to filing the Petition.
5. If you are not excepted from publishing the notice of hearing per SDCL 21-37-
5.2, check the first box and enter the name of the legal newspaper in which the
Notice of Hearing (UJS-026) was published. If you did not publish in the
newspaper due to the exceptions of SDCL 21-37-5.2, skip the checkbox and its
blank.
Page 5 of 6 Form UJS-024
Rev. 04/2026
6. If you are a victim of human trafficking and are changing your name to protect
yourself from the perpetrator, check the second box. If not, skip.
7. If you are a victim of domestic violence and are changing your name to protect
yourself from the perpetrator, check the third box. If not, skip.
a. Note—One of the three boxes must be checked. Only the second and
third boxes might both be checked.
PAGE 2
1. Fill in your first, middle, and last name as it appears on your birth certificate.
2. Fill in your date of birth.
3. Fill in the state, county and city or country where you were born.
4. Fill in your mother’s first, middle and maiden name as it appears on your birth
certificate.
5. Fill in your current first, middle, and last name.
6. Fill in the form of official identification containing your current full name.
7. If you seek an amendment of your birth certificate to reflect a court-approved
legal name change, check the first box on this page. If not, skip.
8. If you seek an amendment of your birth certificate due to incorrect information
check the second box of this page. If not, skip.
9. Fill in your current first, middle, and last name, and then fill in your proposed full
name after the phrase “shall be changed to.
PAGE 3
1. If you are a victim of human trafficking or domestic violence and are changing
your name to protect yourself from the perpetrator, you may check the first box
on this page referring to SDCL 21-37-5.2. If the court so orders, this will restrict
public access to the case file for this name change proceeding and for the file
surrounding any new birth certificate you might choose to obtain with your new
name on it.
2. The second box on this page may be marked if you are amending your birth
certificate.
3. If you are amending your birth certificate, enter your current name as it appears
on your birth certificate on the first line and what your birth certificate should be
amended to on the second line.
4. Mark the last box if you requested an amended birth certificate and you are a
victim of human trafficking or domestic violence and the records should be
sealed.
5. Give the Order for Adult Name Change to the judge when they ask for it at the
time of the hearing.
You need to bring to the hearing a copy of your current birth certificate (and if your
current legal name is different than your name on your birth certificate, a current official
identification with that name), and two copies of the Order for Adult Name Change.
The judge may sign and date the Form UJS-027 Order for Adult Name Change. If
signed, the Form UJS-027 Order for Adult Name Change will need to be filed as well.
The judge will return the signed order to the clerk of court office for filing. Once the
Page 6 of 6 Form UJS-024
Rev. 04/2026
Form UJS-027 Order for Adult Name Change is filed, you are eligible to receive a
certified copy of the order and you will be legally known by your new name.
NOTE: South Dakota law allows certain family members to have more than one name
change request brought in a single petition. See SDCL 21-37-3.1. You must fill out a
separate Form UJS-025 Verified Petition for Adult Name Change for each person;
however, they may be filed together and addressed at the same hearing.
Again, if you have questions regarding the change of name procedure, you may
contact the Legal Form Help Line at 1-855-784-0004 or e-mail the UJS for help with forms
at this link-- ujssrlhelp@ujs.state.sd.us. If you have any questions of a legal nature,
please contact an attorney of your choosing.
HELPFUL HINTS FOR THE HEARING
1. As the Petitioner, you must attend the hearing and testify under oath about the
issues raised in the Verified Petition for Adult Name Change. Make sure you are
prepared.
2. Bring a copy of your birth certificate with you to court, along with any official
identification that shows your current legal name if your birth certificate does
not provide your current name. The judge may want to review it to ensure that
your pleadings are consistent with the birth certificate.
3. Dress appropriately for court.
4. If you need to publish the notice, you should take a file stamped copy of the
Affidavit of Publication to the hearing in case the judge wants you to have it
marked as an Exhibit at the hearing. If you did not have to provide notice of
hearing by publication, please disregard this step.
5. You should bring two copies of the Order for Adult Name Change to the
hearing. The judge may keep the original signed Order for the court file and
will give you a copy for your records.
6. Refer to A Guide for Representing Yourself in South Dakota Courts or the UJS
website for additional helpful hints before your hearing. The Guide can be
found at any clerk of court office or on the UJS website in many spots.
7. If the court grants your request for the name change and has signed the
Order for Adult Name Change, you should obtain certified copies of the
Order from the clerk of courts office.