0
Patient Services
Annual Wellness Exams for All People
Annual wellness exams for women, men, trans, gender non-conforming, and intersex individuals.
Do I need an Annual Wellness Exam or an Office Visit?
We aren’t able to provide “Welcome to Medicare” exams or yearly wellness visits. We strongly encourage you to obtain your yearly preventive care with an internal medicine or family practice provider who may offer more expertise with the issues accompanying advancing age. We are always happy to see you for any sexual health concerns. If you already have a primary care provider, we are also happy to see you for pelvic exams if you prefer to do them here.
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
STI (Sexually Transmitted Infection) Testing & Treatment
Bridgercare offers quick and confidential tests for STIs, as well as STI/STD testing and treatment,providing treatment options if needed.
Learn more about STI/STD testing and treatment , as well as frequently asked questions about STIs.
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
Birth Control
Implant (Nexplanon)
Oral Contraception (Birth Control Pills)
Hormonal Vaginal Ring
Contraceptive Patch
Depo-Provera Shots
Diaphragms
Condoms
IUDs
Preparing for your IUD insertion
Phexxi Contraceptive Gel
Emergency Contraception (including Plan B and Ella)
Natural family planning (fertility awareness)
More info about these birth control methods and how they compare here!
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
Infection Checks
Urinary tract infection (UTI)
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) and cytolytic vaginosis
Yeast infections (candidiasis or thrush)
Skin infections, including:
Cellulitis
Lice (crabs)
Scabies
Tinea cruris (jock itch)
Hair follicle infections
When scheduling online , select “Infection Check or UTI”
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
Pregnancy Testing
Bridgercare provides pregnancy testing and resources. Bridgercare does NOT provide abortions, prenatal care, or adoption services. We will provide a customized list of resources and/or a pregnancy confirmation form based on your needs. You will then need to work with another provider to continue or terminate your pregnancy.
LGBTQ+ Friendly Services
Reproductive and sexual healthcare for LGBTQ+ patients
LGBTQ+ friendly staff and gender-affirming care
Hormone Therapy & Transitioning Visits
PrEP (or Truvada) is a prescription medicine that can help reduce the risk of getting HIV-1 through sex. More info here.
PEP is a prescription medication that must be started within 72 hours of possible exposure to HIV. More info here.
Transgender Care: Adults Only
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
Erectile Dysfunction
Bridgercare can help if you are experiencing erectile dysfunction (ED) at any age.
ED Evaluation
Prescriptions
Counseling
Referral to specialty care if needed
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
Menopause Care
Menopause occurs 12 months after a person’s last period. The time leading up to this point is referred to as the menopausal transition, or more commonly, perimenopause. If you are experiencing menopause or perimenopause, Bridgercare can help with…
Hormone Replacement
Mental Health Services
Vaginal Changes
Nutrition Needs
Non-Hormone Therapies
Learn more about Bridgercare’s Menopause Care here!
To schedule a menopause care appointment with one of our providers, you can go to this link and select “Menopause - First Visit” or “Menopause- Follow up Visit” if you have come to Bridgercare for Menopause Care before.
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
Preconception Counseling
Preconception counseling is health education and promotion, allowing for risk assessment, intervention, and medical optimization before pregnancy to reduce the chances of poor obstetric, maternal, and fetal outcomes.
During your preconception counseling appointment, you and your provider may discuss:
Medical conditions that might impact pregnancy
Medication and substance use
Modifiable lifestyle risk factors
How to time intercourse to achieve pregnancy faster
Carrier screening for some inherited medical conditions
Bridgercare offers carrier screening, which is a form of genetic testing, to all people trying to achieve pregnancy!
There is no set timeline for people to come in for preconception counseling, but we do recommend that patients with underlying or chronic medical conditions and other pregnancy risk factors to come in as soon as you start thinking about pregnancy.
Preconception counseling is not covered by Medicaid, but it is on Bridgercare’s sliding fee scale and MAY be covered by commercial insurance. Call your insurance provider to learn more about coverage options.
All providers at Bridgercare can provide preconception counseling. Preconception counseling can be scheduled online or by calling our front desk!
Cancer Screenings
Pap and/or HPV testing for cervical cancer screening
Colposcopies
Breast exams and referrals for mammograms
Testicular cancer screenings
Colon cancer screening referrals
Self-breast and self-testicular examination instruction
Genetic Testing and Counseling for Cancer
Additional Services
PrEP and PEP (Pre-exposure and post exposure prophylaxis) - medication for HIV prevention
Pre-pregnancy planning
Vaccination for HPV and influenza
Learn what to expect at your appointment!
Abortion Information
Bridgercare provides nonjudgmental, compassionate care for all patients, including free pregnancy testing and resources for prenatal care, adoption, and abortion. We do not offer abortion services at our clinic. If you know you are pregnant or think you might be pregnant and want someone to talk to, we would love to see you :) You can also directly find an abortion provider using one of these sites:
Abortion Finder
I Need An A
Logistical and financial support for abortions:
Montana Abortion Access Program
The Brigid Alliance
If you are exploring your options and would like more information about clinics and resources in Montana:
Montana Family Planning Pregnancy Resources
+ Privacy Policy
Your Information. Your Rights. Our Responsibilities.
This notice describes how medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information. Please review it carefully.
Your Rights
Get an electronic or paper copy of your medical record
You can ask to see or get an electronic or paper copy of your medical record and other health information we have about you.
We will provide a copy or a summary of your health information, usually within 30 days of your request. We may charge a reasonable, cost-based fee.
Ask us to correct your medical record
You can ask us to correct health information about you that you think is incorrect or incomplete.
We may say “no” to your request, but we’ll tell you why in writing within 60 days.
Request confidential communications
You can ask us to contact you in a specific way (for example, home or office phone) or to send mail to a different address.
We will say “yes” to all reasonable requests.
Ask us to limit what we use or share
Bridgercare’s policy is to routinely deny access to protected health information for anyone other than the patient unless the patient has given us explicit permission to share this information.
You have the right to request that any part of your protected health information not be disclosed to family members or friends who may be involved in your care. Your request must state the specific restriction requested and to whom you want the restriction to apply.
If you pay for a service or health care item out-of-pocket in full, you can ask us not to share that information for the purpose of payment or our operations with your health insurer.
We will say “yes” unless a law requires us to share that information.
Get a list of those with whom we’ve shared information
You can ask for a list (accounting) of the times we’ve shared your health information for six years prior to the date you ask, who we shared it with, and why.
We will include all the disclosures except for those about treatment, payment, and health care operations, and certain other disclosures (such as any you asked us to make). We’ll provide one accounting a year for free but will charge a reasonable, cost-based fee if you ask for another one within 12 months.
Get a copy of this privacy notice
You can ask for a paper copy of this notice at any time, even if you have agreed to receive the notice electronically. We will provide you with a paper copy promptly.
Choose someone to act for you
If you have given someone medical power of attorney or if someone is your legal guardian, that person can exercise your rights and make choices about your health information.
We will make sure the person has this authority and can act for you before we take any action.
File a complaint if you feel your rights are violated
We will not retaliate against you for filing a complaint.
You can complain if you feel we have violated your rights by contacting our Operations Director/Privacy Officer at 406-587-0681 or emailing us at bridgercare@bridgercare.org .
You can file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office for Civil Rights by sending a letter to 200 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20201, calling 1-877-696-6775, or visiting www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/hipaa/complaints/ .
Your Choices
For certain health information, you can tell us your choices about what we share. If you have a clear preference for how we share your information in the situations described below, talk to us. Tell us what you want us to do, and we will follow your instructions.
In these cases, you have both the right and choice to tell us to:
Share information with your family, close friends, or others involved in your care
Share information in a disaster relief situation
Share information for your mental health treatment
If you are not able to tell us your preference, for example if you are unconscious, we may go ahead and share your information if we believe it is in your best interest. We may also share your information when needed to lessen a serious and imminent threat to health or safety.
In these cases, we never share your information unless you give us written permission:
Marketing purposes
In the case of fundraising:
We may contact you for fundraising efforts, but you can tell us not to contact you again.
Our Uses and Disclosures
Treat you
We can use your health information and share it with other professionals who are treating you.
Example: A doctor treating you for an injury asks another doctor about your overall health condition.
Run our organization
We can use and share your health information to run our practice, improve your care, and contact you when necessary.
Example: We use health information about you to manage your treatment and services.
Bill for your services
We can use and share your health information to bill and get payment from health plans or other entities.
Example: We give information about you to your health insurance plan so it will pay for your services.
Help with public health and safety issues such as:
Preventing disease
Helping with product recalls
Reporting adverse reactions to medications
Reporting suspected abuse, neglect, or domestic violence
Preventing or reducing a serious threat to anyone’s health or safety
Do research
We can use or share your information for health research.
Comply with the law
We will share information about you if state or federal laws require it, including with the Department of Health and Human Services if it wants to see that we’re complying with federal privacy law.
Address workers’ compensation, law enforcement, and other government requests
We can use or share health information about you:
For workers’ compensation claims
For law enforcement purposes or with a law enforcement official
With health oversight agencies for activities authorized by law
For special government functions such as military, national security, and presidential protective services
Respond to lawsuits and legal actions
We can share health information about you in response to a court or administrative order, or in response to a subpoena.
For more information see: www.hhs.gov/ocr/privacy/hipaa/understanding/consumers/index.html
Our Responsibilities
We are required by law to maintain the privacy and security of your protected health information.
We will let you know promptly if a breach occurs that may have compromised the privacy or security of your information.
We must follow the duties and privacy practices described in this notice and give you a copy of it.
We will not use or share your information other than as described here unless you tell us we can in writing. If you tell us we can, you may change your mind at any time. Let us know in writing if you change your mind.
Changes to the Terms of this Notice
We can change the terms of this notice, and the changes will apply to all information we have about you. The new notice will be available upon request, in our office, and on our web site.
+ Service Animals
Qualified service dogs are welcome at Bridgercare. For the safety and comfort of our staff and patients, we are not able to accommodate therapy and emotional support animals inside the clinic, whether it is a visit or a refill pickup. It's been our experience that animals can become anxious and potentially aggressive in health care settings -- and while we recognize the value that emotional support animals bring to their owners, we must weigh that against the health and safety of staff and patients. Please contact staff ahead of your visit to Bridgercare if you have any questions!
+ Accessibility
Bridgercare is an ADA compliant facility. Please reach out if you have additional questions or suggestions for how we can make your visit more comfortable.
Bridgercare utilizes the Montana Language Services interpretation line for limited English-speaking patients free of charge to patients! Montana Language Services offers many languages for this interpretation service. The most common language we request interpretations for is Spanish. If you need access to interpretation services during your visit, please let us know when you schedule your appointment.
Schedule Now
What to Expect at Your Appointment