XS
SM
MD
LG
Missouri Department of Revenue
Menu
Toolbar Links
RSS News Feed
Email us
Watch Videos on Vimeo
Watch Videos on Youtube
Follow us on Instagram
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Quick Navigation
Skip to Main Content
MO.gov
Governor Kehoe
Find an Agency
Online Services
Quick Navigation
Skip to Main Content
MO.gov
Governor Kehoe
Find an Agency
Online Services
Toolbar Links
RSS News Feed
Email us
Watch Videos on Vimeo
Watch Videos on Youtube
Follow us on Instagram
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
General Questions about Driver Licensing
I’m moving to Missouri and I have a valid driver license from another state. How can I get a Missouri Driver
License?
As soon as you establish residency in Missouri, you must apply and pay for a Missouri driver license at a Missouri license office. You may surrender a valid current driver license (or one
that is expired 184 days or less) from another U.S. state to the state of Missouri to waive your Missouri skills and written tests. All applicants are required to pass the Missouri road sign recognition and vision tests.
Commercial Driver License (CDL) holders must transfer their CDL within 30 days of transfer of residency.
Please click here for a complete list of documents required to obtain a Missouri driver or nondriver license or instruction permit.
If you are between the ages of 21 and 69, you may apply for a 6-year Missouri driver license. If you are between the ages of 18 and 20, or you are 70 or over, you may apply for a 3-year
Missouri driver license. A fee chart is included in Chapter 1 of the Missouri Driver Guide.
Please click here if you want more information about getting a HazMat endorsement on a Missouri CDL .
How can I update the address on my Missouri driver license?
If you want to update the actual driver license card that you carry in your wallet, you must apply and pay for an updated license at a Missouri license office. If you are within six months
of the expiration date on your driver license, you may apply for an early renewal. If not, the transaction would be processed as a duplicate with the same expiration date as your current
driver license.
Whether or not you choose to update your driver license, see information to update your address for our records.
View a complete list of documents required to obtain a Missouri driver license, nondriver license, or
instruction permit.
I just got married/divorced. How do I change the name on my Missouri driver license?
To change your name, you must take documents to verify your identity, Social Security number, Missouri residency, and proof of your name change to a Missouri license office. You may then
apply and pay for a duplicate driver license with your new name. Since a new signature must be "captured", a new photo may be necessary as well. If your Missouri driver license is within 6
months (184 days) of expiring, you are eligible to renew your driver license early, saving you another trip to the license office.
Acceptable documents to verify a name change include:
Certified Marriage Certificate
Certified Divorce Decree
Certified Court Order
Certified Adoption Papers
Amended Birth Certificate
If you are applying for an initial REAL ID-compliant card at the time of completing your name change request, additional documents may be required. View a complete list of documents required to obtain a REAL ID-compliant Missouri driver license,
nondriver license, or instruction permit.
What documents are required to prove who I am?
You must provide documents to verify identity, lawful status, Social Security number, and Missouri residency.
View a list of documents required to apply for a Missouri REAL ID-compliant card.
View a list of documents required to apply for a Missouri non REAL ID-compliant card.
Additional documents may be required to verify an alternate mailing address or name change, if applicable.
What is the minimum age to apply for a Class F instruction permit?
15 years of age.
Where do I go to get my instruction permit?
You must first go to a Missouri State Highway Patrol examination station to take the written, vision and road sign recognition tests. You must then take your Driver Examination Record to a Missouri license office to apply and pay for your instruction permit. Your parent or legal guardian* must come with you to the license office.
* If the applicant is enrolled in a federal residential job training program, then a certified driver training instructor employed by that program may also fulfill the Graduated Driver
License Law responsibilities of the parent, grandparent, or legal guardian.
What is the passing grade on the written test to get my instruction permit?
80% (20 questions out of 25).
What is the cost of an instruction permit and how long is it valid?
The total cost of the Class F operator’s instruction permit is $10.00, it is valid for 12 months, and can be renewed.
Who can I practice driving with before my 16th birthday?
You may practice with your parent, grandparent, legal guardian* or a qualified driving instructor who has a valid driver license.
* If the applicant is enrolled in a federal residential job training program, then a certified driver training instructor employed by that program may also fulfill the Graduated Driver
License Law responsibilities of the parent, grandparent, or legal guardian.
What do I do if I lose my instruction permit?
You should bring proof of identity, and Missouri residency, and apply and pay for a duplicate permit at any Missouri license office.
Can I go to the license office by myself to apply for my intermediate license?
No. Your parent, grandparent, or legal guardian* must sign a statement on your application regarding your behind-the-wheel training.
* If the applicant is enrolled in a federal residential job training program, then a certified driver training instructor employed by that program may also fulfill the Graduated Driver
License Law responsibilities of the parent, grandparent, or legal guardian.
What is the minimum age to apply for an intermediate license?
16 years old.
What tests do I have to take to get an intermediate license?
If you already have a valid instruction permit, you need only pass the driving test with a score of 70% or better.
Does the highway patrol provide a vehicle for me to take the driving test?
No, you must provide the vehicle.
Do you have to take the driving test in a car?
No, it may be any street-legal passenger vehicle such as a van, truck or jeep with current, valid registration (license plates and tabs) and insurance.
If I already have a photo ID (nondriver license) or instruction permit issued by the Department of Revenue, what documents do I need to present to get my driver license?
It depends! If you would like to obtain a REAL ID-compliant driver license, you may view a list of acceptable documents . If you do not need a REAL ID-compliant driver license, you may view a list of acceptable documents . An acceptable identify verification document from the acceptable documents list is required for any new, renewal or duplicate application.
Can I work as a delivery driver at the age of 16?
You may work as a food delivery services driver , as long as the vehicle being driven has a GVWR of 12,000 lbs or less. Only a Class F driver license is required in that
situation.
I have had my driver license suspended or revoked. How do I get my license back?
See our Reinstatement Requirements and Missouri's Limited Driving Privilege page for complete information.
What are the licensing laws for motor scooters (under 50cc)?
Licensing for a moped or motor scooter depends on whether the vehicle meets the definition of a motorized bicycle. The Missouri statute definition of a motorized bicycle is as follows:
"Any two-wheeled or three-wheeled device having an automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity of not more than fifty (50) cubic centimeters, which produces less than
three (3) gross brake horsepower, and is capable of propelling the device at a maximum speed of not more than thirty (30) miles per hour on level ground."
A motorized bicycle does not have to be registered with the Missouri Department of Revenue. However, you must have a valid driver license to operate a motorized
bicycle on public streets (though no motorcycle endorsement is required).
Missouri statute does not require a helmet to be worn when operating a motorized bicycle. Please contact your local law enforcement agencies for any county/municipal codes that deal with
helmets and motorized bicycles.
Keep in mind that no motorized bicycle may be operated on any public thoroughfare located within this state that has been designated as part of the federal interstate highway system.
What is the minimum age to apply for a motorcycle permit, or a motorcycle endorsement on my current instruction permit?
You must be at least 15 1/2 years of age. Applicants under age 16 must also show proof of a completed Motorcycle Rider Training Course (MRTC). Graduated Driver License (GDL) requirements
apply to motorcycle permits. Motorcycle permits are only valid for six months and only allowed one time renewal.
How can I replace my lost/stolen/destroyed Missouri driver license?
You may apply and pay for a replacement driver license at any Missouri license office.
You may obtain a duplicate license or instruction permit if your current document is not due to expire within six months (184 days) from the current date (exceptions may
apply for certain document types or classifications) and you meet one of these conditions:
Your Missouri driver license, permit, or nondriver license has been lost, stolen, or destroyed;
Your name, date of birth, gender, or residence address has changed;
You want to obtain a REAL ID-compliant card; or
You wish to add the Permanent Disability, Boater Identification, or Veteran Designation Symbol to a current driver or nondriver license.
Acceptable documents for proof of identity and Missouri residency are required. You must also present a document verifying mailing address, if
different from residence address. View a list of acceptable documents .
Additional documents may be required to:
Verify lawful status and Social Security number when applying for a duplicate to obtain an initial REAL ID-compliant card;
Verify eligibility for special indicators, such as boater safety, Veteran, or permanent disability; or
Verify a name change, date of birth change, or gender changes.
Duplicate licensing fees are required. More information regarding fees can be found in the Missouri Driver Guide .
If your current document is not due to expire within six months, or 184 days, from the current date, you may request an early renewal. If your driver license or nondriver license
is due to expire within the next six months, your transaction would be processed as a renewal . You may be required to present acceptable documents
for proof of identity, lawful status, Social Security number, and Missouri residency.
NOTE: If your driver license, nondriver license, permit, or any personal documents verifying your identity have been stolen or you suspect fraudulent use of your license number, our
department recommends you notify your local law enforcement agency.
You may request a new number to be assigned by presenting a police report detailing such occurrence, proof of identity, and other required verification documents to apply for a duplicate or
renewal license. Be advised, any prior number issued will be retained on your record for cross reference purposes. If you have more than one current document type on file, such as a license
and nondriver license, you will be required to update all documents to the new number and pay applicable fees.
I have a valid Missouri driver license and want to drive while travelling outside the U.S. Where can I find information
about the International Driving Permit (IDP)?
You can find information regarding the International Driving Permit (IDP) on the U.S. Department of State website (leaving dor.mo.gov web space).
My Missouri driver license expired. Do I have to take the tests again, and is there a late renewal fee?
There are two guidelines to keep in mind regarding the grace period to renew a Missouri driver license after it has expired:
The standard grace period to renew a Missouri driver license (without having to retest) is 6-months after the expiration date on the license.
The grace period for an active duty military member or dependent to renew a Missouri driver license (without having to retest) is 60 days after the date of honorable discharge from the
military, regardless of the expiration date on the driver license.
However, if anybody (military or not) lets their Missouri driver license expire, that person must not drive until after renewing the driver license.
If you go beyond the allowed grace period for your circumstance above, you must pass the appropriate Missouri written, vision, road sign recognition , and skills tests at a Missouri State Highway Patrol examination station . You may then apply and pay for a new Missouri driver license
at any Missouri license office .
There is no "late renewal fee".
Is the Missouri Driver Guide available in an alternative accessible format?
Listen to the Missouri Driver Guide as an audio recording .
Where can I find information about the dangers of drowsy driving?
It is estimated that drowsy driving is a factor in nearly one in six fatal crashes. One study shows that two out of five drivers surveyed (41 percent) admitted to falling asleep behind the
wheel at some point. Another study showed there was no difference between driving sleepy or drunk; both doubled the risk of causing an accident.
For more information on the dangers of drowsy driving, and the steps you can take to prevent it, you may wish to visit the following link, found on the National Sleep Foundation's website .
Can I hold more than one Missouri credential type; or hold a valid credential in Missouri and another state?
No. Current Missouri document holders and any out-of-state transfer applicant may only hold one valid credential. Examples of such scenarios:
A person holding a valid Missouri driver license, applying for a new, upgrade, downgrade, renewal or duplicate of that document type (i.e. driver license for driver license), must surrender the prior document upon application for an updated or reissued. The driver record system will automatically invalidate any previous document of the same type upon issuance.
A person holding a nondriver identification card wanting to apply for a driver license, must surrender the prior nondriver ID when applying for the driver license.
A Missouri record holder with a valid driver license may not obtain a nondriver license ID without first surrendering the driver license. The record holder may have only a driver license or a valid nondriver.
A Missouri record holder who, prior to November 2024, had been issued a Missouri driver license and a Missouri nondriver ID, will be required to surrender one of the documents at the time of their next new, renewal or duplicate document issuance.
Exception for permit holders: A Missouri record holder with a valid driver license may simultaneously hold a motorcycle instruction permit for training purposes. Commercial Leaners Permit (CLP) applicants must hold a valid Missouri noncommercial driver license to be eligible for the CLP.
At the time of application for transfer from another state to Missouri, any previously issued driver license or identification card issued by any other state must be surrendered and will be considered invalidated and the surrendered card will be marked as VOID. For example, if you held a driver license in any other states and apply for a Missouri nondriver identification card only, your driver history information will be transferred to Missouri which will now be your state of record and the prior state will be notified of the surrender and that state will cancel the prior issued credentials in accordance with their state and federal compliance provisions.
If you still have questions, please check out other Driver Licensing FAQs .