Book an Appointment
Patient Portal
Primary Care
Services
Essential benefits for the needs of our gender diverse LGBTQ+ community.
Primary Care Services
Diversity Family Health provides comprehensive primary care services to treat the most common medical conditions in an environment that is free from stigma by professionals that are part of the community and understand the dynamics of lesbian, gay, bisexual and gender diverse people. Whether you need a flu shot, yearly physical, or treatment for your chronic condition-like diabetes, hypertension or asthma.
We can provide services and assist you in having the best health status, including laboratory services providing either on-site or remote testing for most lab studies. Although we do not have on-site radiology services we use a network radiology service close by for needed x-rays or other needed radiological tests like ultrasound, CT, or MRI.
As your primary care provider, if your medical condition warrants a level of care not available at Diversity Family Health we will serve as "cruise director" and help you navigate the healthcare system by referring you to facilities and medical providers that have the same respect for the LGBTQ+. Then we will work with them to coordinate your medical needs in the acute and non-acute settings.
Sexual Health
Diversity Family Health does more than STD testing. When you book a Sexual Health visit with Diversity Family Health you get a comprehensive assessment of sexual health. Your sexual risk is assessed and based on the way that you engage sexually we discuss any challenges and ways to have a happy healthy sex life. We have a number of products and methods to improve the quality and safety of your sexual encounters.
PEP, PrEP and Basic HIV Care
Diversity Family Health specializes in those medical conditions that are common to the LGBTQ+ community.
Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) is available through Diversity Family Health if you may have been exposed within the last 72 hours. We treat this as a medical emergency and will see you 24 hours a day to provide treatment to prevent contracting the virus.
Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP)
is program designed to prevent you from getting HIV if you come into contact with HIV. PrEP is a daily pill or routine injection that is 99-100% effective against HIV.
HIV Care
- Although HIV is now a very treatable and preventable disease, 2015 studies showed that over 80% of new HIV diagnosis were men that have sex with men. Diversity Family Health works with other community resources to ensure that there is smooth transition from testing to treatment. Once testing positive we can initiate all baseline testing and provide initial treatment immediately.
Maybe you have already been diagnosed and undergoing treatment for HIV. Diversity Family Health will work with your other providers to monitor your HIV treatment with your other health conditions or transfer your care altogether. It is our goal to provide the LGB+ community the latest care in prevention and treatment for HIV and other infectious diseases that are also common in our community.
Find out more about long-acting injectable PrEP and HIV Care
HERE
Gender-Affirming Care
Diversity Family Health uses the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH) and other relevant standards to provide gender affirming care to those seeking gender transition. We understand the need for a safe place for people who have a different gender identity or expression than that given at birth to receive competent care. Diversity Family Health works with mental health providers to provide a team approach to listen and assist with your goals for gender affirmation. Diversity Family Health can provide Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy (GAHT) and monitor your progress making adjustments as necessary. As part of the comprehensive team we can also coordinate referrals to voice training and surgical specialists to meet your needs. We know everyone's desires for transition is different so we start each appointment with a discussion to explore your goals and recommend treatment accordingly.
Part of the Community Nursing Center of Oklahoma City, LLC
Share by: