Department of Health Services
Division of Public Health
F-05291 (05/2026)
State of Wisconsin
Wis. Stat. § 69.21
Page 1 of 3
Wisconsin Birth Certificate Application
Purpose: Complete this form to request one or more copies of a certificate of birth that occurred in Wisconsin.
Penalties: Any person who illegally possesses any vital record with knowledge that the vital record has been
illegally obtained is guilty of a Class I felony [a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment of not more than 3
years and 6 months, or both, per Wis. Stat. § 69.24(1)].
Applicant information
Full name of person requesting the certificate:
Address – Street (cannot be a P.O. box):
City: State: ZIP code:
Mail to name – (if different):
Mailing address (if different):
City: State: ZIP code:
Phone number: Email address:
Birth record information
Date of Birth – Month: Day: Year:
Place of Birth – County: City, Village, or Town:
Birth name
First: Middle: Last:
First parent’s birth name
First: Middle: Last:
Second parent’s birth name
First: Middle: Last:
Fees
The fees are the same for long and short forms of the birth certificate. Both forms are acceptable for most legal and
identification purposes. Make check or money order payable to: State of Wis. Vital Records. Cash is also accepted.
Long-form birth certificate includes the child’s name, date of birth, sex, birth county, birth city/village/town,
birth time, birth weight, birth length, parents’ birth names, parents’ names at the time of the event, parents’ birth
dates, and parents’ birthplaces.
Short-form birth certificate includes only the child’s name, date of birth, sex, place of birth, parents’ birth
names, and parents’ birthplaces.
Certificate type Quantity Price Subtotal
First long-form copy fee or check to request a short form 1 x $20.00= $20.00
Additional long form certificates X $3.00=
Additional short form certificates X $3.00=
Total
The fee is not refundable if no record is found. Cancellation requests are not accepted.
F-05291 Page 2 of 3
Applicant’s relationship to person named on the certificate
Per Wis. Stat. § 69.20(1), a certified copy of a birth certificate is only available to those with a “direct and tangible
interest." (A–E) Note: Grandchildren, stepparents, stepchildren and stepbrothers/stepsisters may only obtain
certified copies as categories C-E.
Check one box which indicates your relationship to the person named on the birth certificate.
A. I am the person named on the birth certificate.
B. I am a member of the immediate family of the person named on the birth certificate.
Parent (My name is on the birth certificate,
and my parental rights have not been
terminated.)
Brother/sister
Current spouse
Child
Maternal grandparent
Paternal grandparent
Current domestic partner (registered in the
Wis. Vital Records System)
C. I am the legal custodian or guardian of the person named on the birth certificate.
D. I am a representative authorized by any person in category A, B or C, including an attorney.
Specify the person you represent:
E. I can demonstrate the birth certificate is necessary for the determination or protection of a
personal or property right.
Specify your interest:
F. None of the above. I am requesting an uncertified copy. (Copy will not be valid for identity or legal
purposes)
Purpose for which the certificate is requested:
Photo ID submitted as proof of identity
See page 3 for details on acceptable ID. Note: A copy of the photo ID should be included with the application.
Type of ID: ID number:
Expiration date:
Attestation
I hereby attest that the information provided on this application is correct to the best of my knowledge and belief
and that I am entitled to copies of the requested birth certificate in accordance with the categories listed above.
Signature:
Date signed (MM/DD/YYYY):
F-05291 Page 3 of 3
Instructions and Frequently Asked Questions
Submit your application materials and fee to:
State Vital Records Office, PO Box 309, Madison, WI 53701-0309
Be sure to include:
Completed form
Copy of acceptable identification
Payment
Self-addressed, stamped, business-size envelope
Any additional proof or authorization required
What is the difference between a “certified” and an “uncertified” copy of a birth
certificate?
A certified copy:
• Is printed on security paper, has a raised seal, and shows the signature of the State Registrar or Local
Registrar
• Can be used for legal purposes
• Can only be obtained with a direct and tangible interest as defined in Wis. Stat § 69.20(1).
An uncertified copy:
• Is printed on plain paper and marked “uncertified.”
• Is for information purposes only and cannot be used for identity or legal purposes.
• Contains the same information as a certified copy.
Limitations on access to certain birth certificates
According to Wis. Stat. Ch. 69, uncertified copies of the following types of birth certificates may not be obtained by
anyone:
• A child born to unmarried parents and paternity has not been established.
• A child born to unmarried parents and paternity was established by court order.
How long will it take to process my request?
Requests for certified and uncertified copies of birth certificates may take up to 2 weeks plus mail time to complete.
What identification is required when applying for a birth certificate?
Requests for certified copies proof of identification. A photocopy of the applicant’s ID is required. Expired cards or
documents will not be accepted. Examples of acceptable forms of identification include:
One of these:
• State issued driver’s license or ID card
• US government-issued photo ID
• US or foreign passport
• Tribal or military ID card
or Two of these:
• Bank/earnings statement
• Current, dated, signed lease
• Health insurance card
• Utility bill or traffic ticket
• Vehicle registration/title
If you have questions regarding this form, please call 608-266-1373 or visit our website at
https://www.dhs.wisconsin.gov/vitalrecords