Affirming Identification Assistance
The Affirming Identification Assistance Program (AIDA) will pay the fee for new updated documentation for transgender and gender expansive residents of Arizona upon receiving their name and or gender change court order.
This scholarship will not pay court or legal fees for acquiring your legal name change, only for the updated identification documents. The list of eligible documents is below.
Thank you to our generous donors Andrea Frost and &Proud ERG at Burns & McDonnell Engineering for providing this opportunity for our community!
Eligible Documents
Real ID, driver&#8217;s license, driver&#8217;s permit, and ID cards.
Certified copies of name change court order.
Amended birth certificates.
Passport card (only the card, not the passport book).
Eligibility
Transgender or gender expansive Arizona residents only.
Must be 18 years of age or older.
Must have name and or gender marker change finalized and possess your court order.
Application & Award Process
Fill and submit the application form for the scholarship or grant you want to apply for.
We will review the application within 10 business days.
We will contact the applicant via email with our decision or requesting more information if necessary.
Eligible recipients have 2 weeks (14 days) to accept the offer.
We will issue the award payable to the organization or agency for which the recipient applied for assistance with payment.
The award can be mailed to the recipient or the recipient arrange to pick it up from us directly.
Please contact us with any questions.
Application
Affirming ID Grant Application First Name
Last Name
Email
Have you completed the legal name change process in Arizona, and do you have your legal name change courter order at least in digital form?
Yes, I have my name change court order.
What is your age?
18-24
25-34
35-44
45-54
55-64
65 and over
Zip Code
For which documents are you requesting assistance?
Real ID / driver's license or permit / ID Card
Certified copy of name change court order
Amended birth certificate
Passport card
Please select the reason(s) you are applying for assistance
Unemployed or under employed
Current student
Unhoused or unstable housing
For each document you are requesting assistance with, please provide the relevant web page(s) listing the replacement or renewal cost
Submit