Skip to content
LGBTQIA+ Support Services in North Texas: Safe Spaces, Inclusive Healthcare & Community Resources
For over 40 years, Resource Center has provided trusted LGBTQIA+ services in North Texas, including affirming healthcare, HIV/AIDS services, and safe community spaces.
From leading during the AIDS crisis to advancing equality and opening Dallas&#8217; first LGBTQIA+-affirming senior housing, we’ve been at the forefront of care and advocacy in North Texas. Today, we continue to expand inclusive healthcare and supportive services for LGBTQIA+ individuals and families across North Texas.
Learn More
Providing LGBTQIA+ Health and Wellness
When you need health care, trust Resource Center to provide reliable information and compassionate care in an affirming setting. Our health and wellness services include:
HIV/STI Testing
Treatment and Prevention
Primary Healthcare
Mental Healthcare
Support for People Living with HIV
HRT (18+)
Thriving LGBTQIA+ Families and Communities
Our strength as a queer community and network of families grows when we support each other. At Resource Center, we are committed to helping LGBTQIA+ people heal and thrive. Our Community Wellness Program will feature social networks, family-focused programs, grouped-by-age gatherings and community activities.
Therapeutic Support
Transformative Conversation
Trauma-Informed Mindfulness
Positive Peer Connections
Creative Self-Expression
Community Education Groups
Fighting for LGBTQIA+ Rights
Our vision of equality for all LGBTQIA+ people is powered by our volunteer network. Writing and calling local, state and national elected officials, appearing in-person to make our voices heard, and standing up as a loud-and-proud community can make a difference—and Resource Center is committed to fighting until we win.
• Defending gender non-conforming students’ rights
• Protecting parents who support their LGBTQIA+ children
• Preserving reproductive rights for all
• Educating people at LGBTQIA+ hostile workplaces
Join Our Fight
Looking for Resources?
Give Today to Help Us Help Others
For many LGBTQIA+ folx, the services at the Resource Center are life-saving, whether they need health care or a sense of belonging. That’s why your donation means so much, and why we hope you’ll choose to include us in your giving plans.
Offering HRT Services
Based at Resource Center Health on Inwood Road, our services include medical assessments, hormone therapy (HRT), mental health counseling, referral letters, peer support networks, and group gatherings. Connect with a care specialist today to begin creating your personalized care plan.
Schedule Appointment
Our Commitment to Transparency
Resource Center values the trust placed in us by funders, donors, and community partners and is proud to have earned the highest rating for accountability and transparency from Candid, formerly GuideStar.
View Our Profile
News AND buzz
New Settlements Fuel Old Myths about Detransition
Resource Center Names Christopher Wagley as Next CEO
Cece Cox, one of Dallas’ most influential LGBTQ leaders, announces her retirement
It’s primary election season in Texas
Proposed federal rules would dramatically limit health care access for transgender youth nationwide
Dallas community rallies in response to oral arguments for landmark Supreme Court cases
The Facts Behind the Texas Bathroom Bill
The Waiting Begins for the Supreme Court to Rule on ConversionTherapy Bans
Statement from Resource Center on State Efforts to Remove Rainbow Crosswalks in Texas
As Abbott Signs Anti-LGBTQIA+ Bills, a Special Session Looms
With Oak Lawn Place, Dallas gets affordable housing right
New Hate Crimes Data is Cause for Concern for LGBTQIA+ Americans
Oak Lawn Place will be a welcoming community for seniors in Dallas
SB14 Statement
Title IX Protections for LGBTQIA+ Students: Legal Challenges Mount
Advances in Federal Rules to Protect LGBTQIA+ Americans, but Challenges Remain
Texas “Book Ban” Blocked: What Next?
National Coming Out Day: Celebrating Progress and Recognizing the Journey Ahead
Meet DR Mann Hanson
Camp Youth First
Anti LGBTQIA+ Laws Face Legal Challenges: Where do these Laws Stand?
The Ballroom Community: A Vital Force in the LGBTQIA+ and HIV/AIDS Movement
Why We Need Gender-Affirming Care
Meet Tres Brown
Statement for 303 Ruling
Donate Today!
Double Your Impact Now!
Final Week to Match Your Gift ! Thanks to support from Aaron Zeman & Dane Ruccio and The Celanese Foundation, every gift up to $40,000 will be matched during Pride Month!
Your support enables Resource Center to serve 62,000+ individuals every year with LGBTQIA+ affirming healthcare, community programs, and advocacy.
Match My Gift
GET TICKETS HERE!
$1 = $2 This Holiday Season!
Celebrate queer joy with Resource Center this holiday season. Now through December 31 st , all donations up to $25,000 will be matched!
Match My Gift
Today ONLY – your gift to Resource Center will be MATCHED up to $4,000 thanks to a generous donor! This means your impact will double, supporting vital LGBTQIA+ affirming programs and services. Join us in making a difference today for #GivingTuesday!
Match My Gift
New Matching Funds Announcement!
Today only, all donations MATCHED up to $10,000!
Donate online from 6 a.m. – midnight at NorthTexasGivingDay.org
Match My Gift
happy thanksgiving.
All resource Center locations
closed thursday & friday,
Nov. 23 &24.