Change My Name
St. Louis city residents may file in person at the clerk's office on the third floor of the Clyde S. Cahill Courts Building, 10 North Tucker Boulevard. If you have questions, call 314-622-4404 .
Full instructions for filing a petition to change your name are available here .
Petition for Change of Name &ndash; Adult
Persons 18 and older seeking to change their name may do so by filing a Petition for Change of Name (For Adult Individual) (CAFC401). The petition must state important facts required by law in order for a name change to be granted. Generally the petition must describe who you are, where you live, why you are seeking the change and whether the name change is being made in good faith and without intent to defraud creditors. The forms you will need are available from the Petition for Change of Name Forms page. Most lawyers will file a Petition for Change of Name (For Adult Individual) (CAFC401) for a modest fee. If you have limited money to spend, you may also ask a lawyer to help you with part of the process, such as drafting the petition, reviewing the petition after you complete it, appearing in court at a hearing, or helping you with publication. Court rules allow a lawyer to help a party with certain specific tasks without handling the entire case for a party. This is called Limited Scope Representation. A lawyer providing limited representation usually will charge a fixed fee or charge by the hour.
The steps include:
Filing of a verified petition;
Possible hearing;
Entry of judgment; and
Publication
How to File a Petition for Change of Name
A Petition for Change of Name (For Adult Individual) (CAFC401) must be verified before it can be filed. This means you must swear or affirm the truth of the facts in the petition. Then you must sign the Petition under oath before a notary. Most banks have notaries that can do this for a small fee.
The petition must be filed in the circuit court in the county where you live.
Share this page
Share this page
&times;
Copy and paste this code into your website.
<a href="http://www.stlcitycircuitcourt.com/how_do_i/change_my_name.php">Your Link Name</a>
Share this page on your favorite Social network
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
Close
Close
Read More