Michigan Secretary of State
Sex Designation Form
Note: Only forms with original signatures are accepted. Faxed or photocopied forms will be rejected. This form only
applies to the sex designation on your Michigan driver’s license or state ID. It doesn’t affect any other municipal, state or
federal identification. This form is not a name change document. To have your name legally changed on your driver’s
license or state ID, you must visit a Secretary of State office and present name-change documentation, such as a
marriage license or court order. Visit Michigan.gov/SOS for more information.
A. Applicant information
(Enter the following information as it appears on your driver’s license or state ID card)
Name (first, middle, last):
Street:
City: State: MI ZIP code:
Driver’s license or state ID #: Date of birth:
B. Sex designation statement
(Enter your name as shown on your driver’s license or state ID)
I, , request that the sex designation
on my driver’s license or state ID read:
Female (F) Male (M) Non-binary (X)
C. Automatic voter registration
To register to vote, you must be a U.S. citizen, Michigan resident, and at least 17.5 years old. You can vote only if you
are 18 and have lived in your city or township 30 days by Election Day.
Are you a U.S. citizen? Yes No
If you’re eligible and check the following box, we will register you to vote. We will also register you to vote if you have
already established your U.S. citizenship in a previous application with our office.
Use my information for voter registration.
The sex designation information on this form won’t be shared. Some voter registration information, however, is
public.
D. Validation
I hereby swear, under penalty of perjury, that this request to change the sex designation on my Michigan driver’s license
or state ID (as selected in Section B) is to ensure that my driver’s license or state ID accurately reflects my identity and is
not for fraudulent or other illegal purposes. I understand that if I have provided false information to apply to register to
vote, I may be subject to federal or state criminal penalties.
Applicant signature: Date:
Personally identifiable information collected on this form is limited to what’s needed to complete your transaction. For other ways your information may
be used, visit Michigan.gov/SOS/policies.
Sex Designation Form (Rev. 05/2026)