Skip to main content
Unsupported Browser Detected
The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer.
Supported Browsers
Google Chrome
Safari
Microsoft Edge
Firefox
Healthy Michigan Plan
photos of people who represent enrollees in the Healthy Michigan Plan. "More people are getting healthy with the Healthy Michigan Plan."
Healthy Michigan Plan
New Medicaid Work Requirements
New federal changes may affect your health coverage. Find out whether the new work requirements apply to you - and the steps you may need to take to stay covered.
Learn about work requirements
You can also watch this video from the state Medicaid director about Medicaid in Michigan and the impacts as a result of the H.R. 1 implementation.
Learn more about other Upcoming Federal Medicaid Changes .
Medicaid Work Requirements Notice . ( Arabic | Spanish )
What is the Healthy Michigan Plan?
The Healthy Michigan Plan (HMP) is Michigan’s Medicaid expansion program created under the Affordable Care Act. It provides low‑cost health care coverage to Michigan residents so more people can get the care they need.
Who is eligible
The Healthy Michigan Plan provides health care benefits to Michigan residents at a low cost so that more people can have health care coverage. Individuals are eligible for the Healthy Michigan Plan if they:
Are age 19-64 years.
Have income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level. *
Do not qualify for or are not enrolled in Medicare.
Do not qualify for or are not enrolled in other Medicaid programs.
Are not pregnant at the time of application.
Are residents of the State of Michigan.
Demonstrate work requirements (beginning on January 1, 2027).
*Eligibility for the Healthy Michigan Plan is determined through the Modified Adjusted Gross Income methodology.
How to apply
If you think you might be eligible, apply today and see if you qualify. Choose from one of the following options to apply.
Apply online at michigan.gov/mibridges .
Call the Michigan Health Care Helpline at 1-855-789-5610.
Visit your MDHHS local county office.
Don't wait to get health care coverage. Apply today for the Healthy Michigan Plan.
What is covered
The Healthy Michigan Plan covers the federal healthcare law essential health benefits, as well as other services and benefits. This means that you can get the health care you need at a low cost. With these benefits available, it's never been easier to protect your health. The Healthy Michigan Plan provides the following services:
Ambulatory patient services.
Emergency services.
Hospitalization.
Maternity care.
Mental health and substance use disorder treatment services, including behavioral health treatment.
Prescription drugs.
Rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices.
Laboratory services.
Preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management.
Pediatric services for 19 and 20 year olds, including oral and vision care.
The Healthy Michigan Plan will cover other medically necessary services as appropriate. The Healthy Michigan Plan Handbook provides more information about what is covered.
What are the costs
Beneficiaries receiving services will pay co-pays to their doctor's office, pharmacy or other provider, if one is due.
Healthy Michigan Plan Copays
Follow us