Cart
0
Back
Mission & Vision
Code of Conduct
History
Building History
Our Team
Join Our Team
Volunteer
News
Contact
Financials
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Back
Archives
Galleries
Library
Back
Community Mondays
Peer Counseling
The Elder Initiative
Trans Programs
Elder Resources
Trans Resource Center
Wellness Programs
Back
Recovery Meetings
Community Resources
Back
Donate
Shop
Sponsorship Opportunities
Volunteer
Trans Programs
Our’s Truly
Ours Truly is a Trans & Gender Non-Conforming Social and Support Initiative with a mission to empower and uplift transgender and gender-diverse individuals by providing a safe and affirming community space. We foster connection, mutual support, and collaboration, celebrating trans joy, resilience, and the diversity of lived experiences, while offering opportunities for creative expression, education, and social engagement for all under the trans umbrella. This initiative allows folks to participate in affinity spaces, creative projects, and educational workshops. (18+)
To keep the most up to date, people can sign up for the Ours Truly newsletter, a bi-weekly e-blast where folks can see what events are coming up, gain access to necessary virtual links, view archival material, and find out about other community events.
Sign up HERE .
Trans Day of Remembrance
Annual on November 20
Transgender Day of Remembrance is an annual community gathering to remember and celebrate our friends and loved ones lost to violence, and to raise awareness of the continuing violence against members of our community. Each year’s program begins with a reading of the names of those who have been lost to violence.
Trans Day of Visibility Fashion Show & Vendor Market
Annual in March
Celebrate Trans Day of Visibility with us at William Way! Browse an incredible lineup of trans makers, artists, and creatives at our indoor vendor market, then stick around for a one-of-a-kind fashion show featuring trans designers and models—with all looks styled from Philly AIDS Thrift.
Free, family-friendly, and sober—open to all!
Summer Vibes Block Party: A Celebration of Trans Joy
Annual in July
The annual Summer Vibes Block Party at the William Way LGBT Community Center is a celebration of Trans Joy brought to you by the Arcila-Adams Trans Resource Center! This vibrant and inclusive event is offers an exciting array of live entertainment, food, activities, and community organizations. This event is completely FREE and open to everyone.
Pransome
Operates during regular business hours
Pransome offers free gender-affirming alterations & wardrobe tweaks for folks under 5’ 7”
Find more information here .