How Do I
Overview
The North Dakota court system charges filing fees for filing some documents with the court in civil cases.
If you can't afford to pay a filing fee , you can ask the court, in writing, for a filing fee waiver. Forms to make the request are available below.
You may be eligible for a filing fee waiver if you don't make much money or you have a lot of expenses. If the court gives you a filing fee waiver, you don't have to pay the filing fee .
Section 27-05.2-03 of the North Dakota Century Code sets the filing fees for documents filed in civil cases. The filing fees for common types of documents are:
Filing a Small Claims Court claim affidavit
$20
Filing a summons and complaint (or summons and petition) in District Court , including (but not limited to) divorce, separation, parenting responsibility, adoption, paternity, guardianship, conservatorship, informal and formal probate, and eviction
$160
Answering a summons and complaint (or summons and petition) in District Court
$100
Filing a motion to modify an order for spousal support, property division, child support, parental rights and responsibilities, residential responsibility (custody), or parenting time (visitation)
$160
Filing an answer to motion to modify an order for spousal support, property division, child support, parental rights and responsibilities, residential responsibility (custody), or parenting time (visitation)
$100
Filing Fee Waiver Request Forms:
North Dakota Legal Self Help Center forms aren't official court forms and courts aren't required to accept them. There's no guarantee that all judges and courts will accept forms available through the Center. Use at your own risk.
Forms aren't available for every legal issue or circumstance. If you don't find the form on this website, the form isn't available through the North Dakota Legal Self Help Center.
You may need to create legal documents yourself. The General-Use Checklists and Forms in the District Court Civil section of this website may be used as a starting point for creating your own legal documents.
All Filing Fee Waiver Instructions and Forms (Print on one side only)
Selected Statutes (Laws) & Rules
Following are legal research starting points related to filing fee waivers. You may need to conduct additional legal research into your legal issue. See the Legal Research Section of this webpage.
Chapter 27-05.2 of the North Dakota Century Code
Section 27-01-07 of the North Dakota Century Code
North Dakota Rules of Civil Procedure
North Dakota Rules of Court
If you don't understand any of this information, or if you have trouble filling out any of the forms located here, please see an attorney for help.
The information provided on and obtained from this site doesn't constitute the official record of the Court. This information is provided as a service to the general public. Any user of this information is hereby advised that it is being provided "as is". The information provided may be subject to errors or omissions. Visitors to this site agree that the Court isn't liable for errors or omissions of any of the information provided.
If you have a question relating to a case that is already filed please contact the clerk of court for the county.