0
Making Justice
a Reality
Get Involved
Increasing access to justice for people in New Hampshire
New Hampshire Legal Assistance (NHLA) provides free civil legal aid to people in New Hampshire primarily in the areas of housing (eviction, foreclosure, and property tax deeding); domestic violence and family law (protective orders, divorce, and parenting rights and responsibilities); and public benefits (disability, unemployment, and more).
For information about the kinds of cases we handle at NHLA, please see our Legal Services page . We help people who have low income and limited assets and we also help older adults (age 60 and over).
Click here for our Written Notice of Beneficiary Protections.
To apply for civil legal aid, connect with 603 Legal Aid online or by phone: 1 (800) 639-5290 .
To find help with a CRIMINAL legal case, visit the website of the NH Public Defender .
What is free civil legal aid?
Civil legal aid can mean lots of different things. For example, civil legal aid can mean an attorney or paralegal advocate who
Goes to court with you , for example to stop an eviction or get a domestic violence protective order
Helps you navigate a government program , for example by appealing a decision denying an application for denial of disability benefits
Negotiates on your behalf , for example with a landlord
Speaks up at meetings or hearings where important decisions are made that affect people with low income
Writes a self-help guide to educate people who will need to navigate some portion of the legal system on their own. Click here to read our resources .
Follow us on Facebook or LinkedIn
Who We Are & What We Do
A central starting point for clients and volunteers
603 Legal Aid provides a statewide centralized intake system to help clients access the services they need. They also provide representation and advice by staff advocates and volunteer attorneys.
Visit 603LegalAid.org
Expanding and protecting access to justice
NHCLS provides local business, legal and philanthropic communities the opportunity to prevent homelessness, poverty and abuse in NH by increasing access to justice for people in need.
Give Now at NH-CLS.org
Representation and Systemic Advocacy for New Hampshire
NHLA is a nonprofit law firm. We represent and advise clients in civil legal cases that impact their basic needs. We also handle major litigation and advocate for public policy solutions.
About NH Legal Assistance
Need Legal Help?
CLICK HERE
FOR QUICK ESCAPE
This page will redirect
to weather.com