LGBTQ&#43; Youth Community Center
Welcome
Lambert House empowers lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning youth through the development of leadership, social, and life skills.
Donate securely through PayPal:
“ Until I found Lambert House, I felt completely alone... There was never a community for me at home or at school. Lambert House changed that. Here, I have friends and support and a community that doesn’t exist anywhere else. ”
&mdash; Kyle, 16 year old youth
Youth Programs
Lambert House offers LGBTQ youth over 30 different annual and ongoing programs, activities, resources, and services.
More info
Ways to Give
Please help Lambert House continue to safeguard and uplift LGBTQ youth. Choose from the numerous opportunities to support our programs now and for the future.
More info
Volunteer
Adult volunteers serve as trusted role models and mentors and give youth hope for their futures. Youth volunteers build community and exercise leadership in multiple ways.
More info
Join Us!
Lambert House is a safe place for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ+) youth ages 10-22. Our calendar is packed with fun activities, dinners, support groups, planning meetings, dances, and other events. Lambert House is where LGBTQ+ youth make life better for each other.
Come see what we are all about! The drop-in center has large living rooms with a pool table, a music station for tunes, a library with LGBTQ+ books, TV, games, a computer lab, and people to talk with about anything on your mind. Our Youth Programs page has more information about our programs, and how to join.
You might be surprised how easy it can be to meet someone going through the same things you are! Some great ways to do that are joining a support group, an activity, talking to one of the adult role models, using our computer lab, getting dinner, shooting pool, or playing games.
We are located at 1818 15th Ave on Capitol Hill .
The drop-in center is open Mondays through Fridays 4-9:30, except for some holidays and breaks. Check our program calendar for updates.
Confidentiality Policy
www.lamberthouse.org