Go to Content
Care for Every. Body.
How can I get an appointment?
Whether it’s for an in-person or a telehealth visit, you can book an appointment anytime online or you can call 866-711-1717 to book directly through the PPTNM call center, Monday-Friday from 8am to 5pm CST. (Note: if you call during normal business hours and hear a recorded message, stay on the line — someone will be with you shortly!)
How much does GAH treatment cost?
Read about our good faith estimate policy . We accept many health insurance plans. Please contact your insurer to confirm coverage and out-of-pocket costs. Provide your insurance details when booking. We must verify your insurance before appointments. Remember to bring your insurance card and a picture ID to every visit.
If you are uninsured, we have prompt pay discounts and have other resources available. Please speak with our call center or health center staff for more information.
We accept:
Major Credit/Debit Cards
HSA/FSA debit cards
Apple Pay
Google Pay
You must pay on the day of your appointment .
How do I pay for my appointments?
PPTNM accepts many insurance plans and self-pay patients are welcome, too! Full payment is due when you arrive at your appointment with a credit card for in-person or telehealth.
What can I expect at my first appointment?
At check-in, you will be asked to provide basic demographic information, as well as your preferred name and pronouns. From there, you will meet with a medical assistant who will collect your health information, including health history, vital signs and some lab work.
How is a telehealth appointment different from an in-person appointment?
There is no major difference, other than the obvious! You will join your appointment via the MyChart platform where you will be asked the same questions as you would be in-person. You will, however, need to provide blood pressure readings and be located in the state of Tennessee at the time of your telehealth appointment. Your telehealth provider will refer you to the nearest medical diagnostics lab, such as Quest Diagnostics, for your lab work.
Does Planned Parenthood offer GAH care to minors?
GAH treatment is only available to patients 18 and older. However, Planned Parenthood offers a safe, inclusive environment for anyone — including minors — to access other sexual and reproductive health services, such as wellness exams, STI testing and treatment, and contraception.
What is Informed Consent?
Informed Consent is a model of care in which patients are able to access hormones during a visit with their provider, where they'll discuss the risks and benefits of care. No visit with a mental health professional is required. Gender affirming care at our health centers includes hormone prescriptions and linkage to additional care as needed.
Still have questions? Email us at [email&#160;protected] or give us a call at 866-711-1717.
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all