Defending The Rights To Equality, Liberty, and Justice For All
The Latest
News & Commentary
U.S. Supreme Court, for a Third Time, Declines to Overturn Lawful Missouri Congressional Map
Politicians and elected officials have unleashed unnecessary but intentional chaos on Missouri voters, not for the benefit of their constituents but for themselves and the state actors in D.C. who designed and demanded these maps solely for partisan power grab.
News & Commentary
Advocates Cite Ordinances Targeting Unhoused Neighbors; Requests to Mayor Remain Unfulfilled
"These ordinances disproportionately target unhoused neighbors who are expressing their constitutional right to free speech by seeking assistance on the streets. Our Constitution does not permit a lower standard of free speech simply because one is in need of assistance.”
News & Commentary
ACLU and Campaign Legal Center Call on U.S. Supreme Court to Uphold Missouri Supreme Court Ruling and Let Voters Decide on Gerrymandered Map
“Throughout this process, politicians neglected every path to provide Missourians with clarity and resolution, instead choosing intentional and unnecessary delay as their tactic to force an illegal map to thumb the scale of partisanship.”
News & Commentary
Right to Reproductive Freedom Amendment Delivers
Missourians can once again access the most common form of abortion care, clearing the way for Planned Parenthood to resume providing medication abortion.
Issues We're Monitoring
Voting Rights
Reproductive Freedom
LGBTQ+ Justice
Freedom of Speech and Open Government
View All Issues
Make an impact
Take Action
Today, years of hard-fought civil liberty protections are under threat.
To influence lawmakers, we need everyone to get involved.
Protect birthright citizenship
Send message
Petition
Defend Trans Freedom
Support Our Petition
Shut Down the ICE Detention Machine
Send message
Action {{ slotProps.activeSlide }} of
3
Stay Informed
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement .
English