Paying for Services
Family Tree Clinic is a nonprofit clinic dedicated to quality, affordable care. We strive to keep our costs as low as possible. In summary&#8230;
We do not turn patients away for an inability to pay for services at the clinic.
All labs, supplies and medications must be paid for at time of service, or billed to a state program or patient’s insurance.
Payment plans can be set up at the front desk to help patients pay the cost of services and labs.
Medication must be paid for in full at time of pick up.
Medication cannot be dispensed without full payment.
Many patients who come to Family Tree Clinic are eligible for The Minnesota Family Planning Program , which provides free family planning services, including free birth control and yearly exams. Find out if you are eligible .
For those not eligible for the Minnesota Family Planning Program or those not utilizing family planning services, Family Tree Clinic provides low-cost services based on a sliding fee scale. Sliding fee scale means that we base our charges on your income. You will be charged between 40 to 100 percent of the actual cost of your visit depending on your income.
Some uninsured or underinsured patients qualify for coverage for some types of cancer screenings under Minnesota&#8217;s Sage program .
If you are unable to pay your entire bill at the time of your visit, we can bill you for the balance and set up a payment plan. We accept Visa, Mastercard, Discover, American Express, checks, money orders, and cash. You can pay in person at the clinic, over the phone at 612-473-0800, or by logging into your patient portal.
It is our philosophy that everyone is entitled to quality health care. We will ask you to pay for at least the lab tests done at your appointment and any medications you take with you. We expect that eventually, everyone will pay their bill since we rely on patient payments to continue operating, but please do not hesitate to make an appointment even if you don’t have the money to pay for your entire visit on the day of your visit.
We also accept most major health insurance
If you have insurance and you would like us to bill them for your visit, we can certainly do that. If your insurance does not cover the cost of your services, you may be responsible for that balance and we will send you a bill. We recommend you always check with your insurance provider to make sure they will cover visits at Family Tree Clinic. If coverage is through your parent’s policy, your parents will receive a copy of the charges from the insurance company.
If you have any questions, please contact our Billing Associate at 612-473-0813 or billing@familytreeclinic.org .
Pay Your Bill Online
If you would like to log in to our patient portal and make a payment, you can do so here: Patient Portal
If you would like to pay your copay or a patient bill without logging into our patient portal, you can do so here: Patient Payments
Cookie Consent
Your privacy is important to us, so we provide this opportunity to select your cookie settings for this website. You can accept and reject individual cookie types as well as view our cookie policy via the floating cookie icon that will appear on the lower left side of your screen.
Preferences Reject Accept All
Cookie Preferences
&times;
Manage your cookie preferences below:
Toggle Essential Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the proper function of the website.
Name
Description
Duration
Cookie Preferences
This cookie is used to store the user's cookie consent preferences.
30 days
Toggle Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager
Google Tag Manager simplifies the management of marketing tags on your website without code changes.
Name
Description
Duration
cookiePreferences
Registers cookie preferences of a user
2 years
td
Registers statistical data on users' behaviour on the website. Used for internal analytics by the website operator.
session
Toggle Login Login
These cookies are used for managing login functionality on this website.
Name
Description
Duration
wordpress_logged_in
Used to store logged-in users.
Persistent
wordpress_sec
Used to track the user across multiple sessions.
15 days
wordpress_test_cookie
Used to determine if cookies are enabled.
Session
Toggle Statistics Statistics
Statistics cookies collect information anonymously. This information helps us understand how visitors use our website.
Toggle Google Analytics Google Analytics
Google Analytics is a powerful tool that tracks and analyzes website traffic for informed marketing decisions.
Service URL: policies.google.com (opens in a new window)
Name
Description
Duration
_ga
ID used to identify users
2 years
_gali
Used by Google Analytics to determine which links on a page are being clicked
30 seconds
_ga_
ID used to identify users
2 years
_gid
ID used to identify users for 24 hours after last activity
24 hours
_gat
Used to monitor number of Google Analytics server requests when using Google Tag Manager
1 minute
_gac_
Contains information related to marketing campaigns of the user. These are shared with Google AdWords / Google Ads when the Google Ads and Google Analytics accounts are linked together.
90 days
__utma
ID used to identify users and sessions
2 years after last activity
__utmt
Used to monitor number of Google Analytics server requests
10 minutes
__utmb
Used to distinguish new sessions and visits. This cookie is set when the GA.js javascript library is loaded and there is no existing __utmb cookie. The cookie is updated every time data is sent to the Google Analytics server.
30 minutes after last activity
__utmc
Used only with old Urchin versions of Google Analytics and not with GA.js. Was used to distinguish between new sessions and visits at the end of a session.
End of session (browser)
__utmz
Contains information about the traffic source or campaign that directed user to the website. The cookie is set when the GA.js javascript is loaded and updated when data is sent to the Google Anaytics server
6 months after last activity
__utmv
Contains custom information set by the web developer via the _setCustomVar method in Google Analytics. This cookie is updated every time new data is sent to the Google Analytics server.
2 years after last activity
__utmx
Used to determine whether a user is included in an A / B or Multivariate test.
18 months
Toggle Marketing Marketing
Marketing cookies are used to follow visitors to websites. The intention is to show ads that are relevant and engaging to the individual user.
Toggle Google Maps Google Maps
Google Maps is a web mapping service providing satellite imagery, real-time navigation, and location-based information.
Service URL: policies.google.com (opens in a new window)
Name
Description
Duration
OGPC
These cookies are used by Google to store user preferences and information while viewing Google mapped pages.
1 month
OGP
This cookie is used by Google to activate and track the Google Maps functionality.
2 months
Toggle Cookie Policy Cookie Policy
You can find more information in our Cookie Policy and Data Privacy Policy .
Accept All Close
Save and Close