Skip to content
Nevada Legal services
Free Legal Services for Low-Income Nevadans
Find Legal Info
Online Intake
See if You Qualify
You must meet certain requirements to qualify for free legal assistance. Find out if you are eligible by completing our easy to follow intake form.
Apply Online
Special Events
We host a variety of events throughout the year including educational seminars on impactful topics, Ask A Lawyer events, law fairs, and more!
View Calendar
Give Online
Our statewide free legal assistance is supported by donations. Help us provide equal access to justice and continue helping those who need it the most.
Donate Online
About Us
Our Mission Is to Provide Equal Access to Justice for All Nevada Residents
It is the Mission of Nevada Legal Services to strengthen the community by ensuring fairness and providing equal access to justice for low-income Nevadans.
Our team of knowledgeable legal experts and volunteer professionals provide personalized assistance to help individuals and families seek and obtain the best use of all legal resources available. We realize that many Nevada residents face disadvantages and financial difficulty when it comes to finding legal help.
Nevada Legal Services has the responsibility to advance legal aid in search for justice for those who need it the most.
2024 Year In Review
Learn more about who we are and how we help
Watch the Video
We Work With Attorneys Throughout the State of Nevada to Offer You Professional Legal Advocacy
Access to legal help is closer than you think. Nevada Legal Services is available in different regions throughout the state of Nevada and legal help is provided by some of the state&#8217;s top legal experts who want to make a difference in the lives of those in their community.
Visit our Pro Bono Program
Upcoming CLE Classes
Volunteer Spotlight
Upcoming
Events
Sean P. Patterson, Esq.
NLS is grateful to have the support of Sean Patterson, one of our wonderful pro bono volunteer attorneys.
Sean Patterson has completely taken to heart the work of our Pro Bono Program, and as a result, has made a difference in many lives of his bankruptcy pro bono clients and has also served as a mentor to his fellow colleagues. To learn more about Sean Patterson and his practice, please visit: www.loseyourdebts.net
If you are interested in volunteering or learning more about our Pro Bono Program, please visit: nevadalegalservices.org/pro-bono-programs/
No event found!
Full Event Calendar
View all upcoming events
Important SNAP Benefits Update
Changes to SNAP impacting low-income Nevadans
Due to recent changes in federal law, Nevada SNAP recipients aged 18-64 who do not meet specific criteria may no longer receive SNAP benefits as of May 1, 2026 . Watch our explainer video or visit our SNAP benefits page to learn more. If you have been denied or terminated from Nevada&#8217;s SNAP program and want to request free legal assistance, please complete an online intake application or contact the nearest NLS office.
Learn More About SNAP
Free Help is Available for All Who Qualify
Nevada Legal Services offers free legal resources for low income families, women, minorities, disabled, and others in need throughout the state. We offer a variety of legal help so that Nevadans are not denied the right to receive fair justice. Fill out the online intake form below to see if you qualify for our free legal services. Information is confidential. Now, lets get you the help you need.
Proceed to Online Intake
Get Involved Today
Pro Bono Opportunities
Events & Workshops
Donate Online
Secret Link
Upcoming Events
No event found!