An official Louisiana.gov website.
Here's how you know
The .gov means it’s official.
Louisiana government websites often end in .gov. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a Louisiana government site.
The site is secure.
The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
Phone: (225) 925-6146
Translate
Book Appointment
Contact Us
×
Close
Duplicate / Replacement / Reconstructed Cards
Home / Drivers / Personal Driver's Licenses / Duplicate / Replacement / Reconstructed Cards
Duplicate License / ID Card
A duplicate license or identification card may be issued when a license or identification card has been lost, stolen, or mutilated.
Requirements
Proper identification must be presented unless the applicant can be identified through the Department’s Photo Retrieve program.
if the license will expire within 90 days , the transaction must be processed as a renewal.
If the license will expire within 180 days , the applicant has the option to renew.
Exceptions
If an applicant eighteen years of age or over applies for a duplicate Louisiana driver's license or identification card and a photo image exists under the Photo Retrieve Program and the applicant is clearly identified, no other identification is required.
If an applicant under the age of eighteen applies for a duplicate Louisiana driver's license and a photo image exists under the Photo Retrieve Program and the applicant is clearly identified, the signature of the custodial parent or legal guardian is required prior to issuance.
If an applicant seventeen years of age applies for a duplicate Louisiana Identification card and a photo image exists under the Photo Retrieve Program and the applicant is clearly identified, the credential can be issued without the custodial parent/guardian's signature.
Reconstructed Licenses
A reconstructed license establishes procedures for a Louisiana resident, who is temporarily out of the state/country and unable to return to Louisiana, to apply for a copy of their Louisiana driver’s license or identification card.
Requirements
Application for Reconstructed DL/ID for Temp OOS residents (DPSMV2013)
Proof of Louisiana residency.
Applicable fees in the form of money order, certified check or cashier’s check made payable to Office of Motor Vehicles.
In addition to the items listed above the following documents must be provided, if applicable:
Active Duty Military - a copy of the active duty orders, LES or a letter from the applicants commanding officer indicating the applicant is currently active duty military.
Dependents of the active-duty military - a copy of active duty orders or a letter from a commanding officer listing the applicant as a dependent of an enlisted individual currently on active duty.
Students attending school out of state - A current copy of the student ID card or school transcript indicating that the applicant is enrolled at the time of application
Commercial driver’s license (duplicate only)
Medical Examiner’s Certificate (Form MSCA-5876)
CDL Supplemental Form (Form DPSMV2211), if applicable
Applicant’s seventy years of age or older, or an applicant with a disability that precludes person from renewing in person
A sworn affidavit by a physician certifying that the applicant possesses all cognitive functions necessary to be a prudent driver.
Restrictions
The following do not qualify for issuance of a reconstructed driver’s license or identification card:
First-time issuance of a REAL ID
A driver’s license currently under suspension or revocation
A driver’s license or identification card that has been expired for twelve (12) months or more
A driver’ license or identification card that was renewed by mail or electronic commerce at the last occurrence of its expiration
Driver’s license or identification cards issued to the alien student or non-resident aliens
REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION
Reconstructed Duplicate/Renewal License/ID Card Application DPSMV2013
Reconstructed Duplicate/Renewal License/ID Card Application DPSMV2013
Medical Examiner's Certificate MCSA5876
Medical Examiner's Certificate MCSA5876
CDL Supplemental Form DPSMV2211
CDL Supplemental Form DPSMV2211
FEES
Fees & Duration of License / ID Card
Fees & Duration of License / ID Card
ONLINE SERVICES
Duplicate Driver's License / ID Card
Duplicate Driver's License / ID Card