0
Ohio Name Change Legal Clinic
Register for the next virtual free Ohio Name Change Legal Clinic HERE
Virtual monthly clinics are held the second Wednesday of every month by appointment
If you need financial assistance with filling fees, our microgrants program is here to help
Apply HERE
If you have any further questions please email us at legalclinics@transohio.org
If you would like to follow one of our how to guides on your own they can all be found HERE
The following probate courts are located in “friendly” counties. If you are not a current resident of one of these counties, we encourage you to go through our Ohio Name Change Legal Clinic if looking to update your gender marker so that we can share the most up to date information: Athens, Cuyahoga, Delaware, Franklin, Hamilton, Lorain, Lucas, Portage, and Summit
Ohio BMV Gender Marker Changes: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Updating Identity Documents
Name and Gender Change for Adults
US Passport Guide Name and Gender Change Adults and Minors (disregard gender marker section 1/6/25)
Name and Gender Change for Minors
Interested in volunteering as an attorney, paralegal, or notary with the Ohio Name Change Legal Clinic? Please sign up HERE or email legalclinics@transohio.org
Do you have questions about legally changing your or your child's name and/or gender designation on various identity documents in Ohio? Join us for a FREE legal clinic! Through the partnership of TransOhio with support from local and statewide community groups, the Ohio Name Change Legal Clinic offers confidential virtual discussions with trained pro bono attorneys to help you navigate the process! Come with all of your questions, and leave with the paperwork you need.
Registration is required at least 48 hours in advance of the Legal Clinic date; however, we recommend completing your registration as early as 1-2 months prior, because spaces are limited and filled on a first come, first served basis. Your registration is not complete until you receive a confirmation email from a legal clinic coordinator, who will also provide information on how to join your scheduled session with the Ohio Name Change Legal Clinic. Consultations will take place over Zoom (accounts are free to create) or by phone.
If, at any point, you experience issues accessing the registration form, or if you cannot attend a Legal Clinic virtually, please email legalclinics@transohio.org . Sessions are scheduled for one hour but may run longer or shorter. Please make yourself available for the entire 2 hour period.
*note: if you are under 18 years of age, you will need a parent or guardian to complete the legal forms. Including them at your session with the Ohio Name Change Legal Clinic is not required but would be helpful
This event is always free, however there are costs associated with the legal process. Funding for filing fees and administrative costs are available for those who qualify through Ohio Name Change Microgrants, offered by TransOhio. Donations to help support this important community programming can be made at https://www.transohio.org/donations