Delaware Department of
Insurance
File a Complaint/Appeal
Listen
The goal of the Insurance Commissioner&#8217;s Consumer Services Division is to protect, advocate for and inform consumers of their rights and options when it comes to insurance. Please feel free to contact the Consumer Services Division with general questions you have about insurance or if you have problems or complaints.
WHAT WE CAN DO:
Forward a copy of your complaint to the insurance company, if appropriate;
Obtain information or explanations on your behalf from the insurance company or their representatives. This may involve written and verbal contact with such companies or persons;
Review in detail the information obtained from the company for compliance with statutes, regulations and their own policy contracts;
In general, explain the language, provisions and coverages of your insurance policy;
Suggest to you actions or procedures that you may take which could aid in resolving your insurance problem;
If it is determined that the actions of an insurance company are in violation of a statute, regulation or policy that the Administration enforces, we may take corrective action against that company.
Assist with filing appeals relating to medical claims
Assist with open enrollment questions for both fully insured and self-funded policies issued in Delaware. **Marketplace enrollment issues are handled through the Federally Facilitated Marketplace at 1-800-318-2596.
Inquire as to the appropriateness of Workers’ Compensation rate filings and audits (see “Other Jurisdictions”, below, for Workers Comp claims).
WHAT WE CANNOT DO:
Assume the role as your legal representative, in or out of court;
Intervene in a pending lawsuit on your behalf;
Intervene in matters when an insurance policy (contract) was issued and delivered to the policyholder in another state (outside of Delaware);
Recommend or suggest doing business with specific insurance agents/brokers or companies
If you’re thinking about using an AI tool to file or write a complaint, keep in mind:
AI is not an expert: AI can generate “hallucinations” or incorrect/misleading advice that may lengthen the time we have to spend on your complaint.
There is no substitute for real people: For accurate information about your policy or Delaware law, speak with our Consumer Services Team, your insurance agent or a licensed attorney.
We are here to help: Our Consumer Services Team provides human expertise that AI cannot match.
If you have questions or need to file a complaint, please contact the Delaware DOI directly and in your own words rather than relying on AI-generated content.
To file a complaint or request assistance with a problem involving an insurance company or agent:
Fill Out a Complaint Form Online
Please Note: If you have already contacted the Delaware Insurance Department concerning this matter DO NOT fill out this form. You may still contact the department by phone or email at the address below.
Call 1-800-282-8611 in Delaware or (302) 674-7310
Stop in to see us for directions
Email us at consumer@delaware.gov
Before you file a complaint/inquiry with the Delaware Department of Insurance, you should first contact the insurance company, agent or adjuster in an effort to resolve the issue(s). The department cannot act as your lawyer or give legal advice. If you do not receive a satisfactory response, then complete this form and attach copies of any important papers that relate to your complaint. Request for Assistance may be submitted by fax, email, mail, or telephone.
Automobile Cancellation Appeals:
If you have received a notice of cancellation or non-renewal from your automobile insurance company for any reason other than non-payment of premiums, under 18 Del. C §3906 you can file an appeal through the Department using the attached form.
Auto Bulletin 34
Application for Appeal of Automobile
Pharmacist Maximum Allowable Cost (MAC) Appeal:
If a Pharmacist has exhausted all internal appeal rights with the Pharmacy Benefits Manager (PBM) regarding a MAC list reimbursement he/she has the right under 18 Del. C §3324A and Regulation 1411, 9.0 to file an appeal through the Department using the attached form.
Domestic/Foreign Insurers Bulletin 99
Application for Appeal by Pharmacist
Go to Top
Our Mission
Meet Trinidad
Divisions
Newsroom
Public Hearings
Contact Information
Delaware Marketplace
Apply for a License
Licensee Lookup
Print a License
Print CE Transcript
Compare Rates
File a Complaint/Appeal
Report Fraud
Medicare Counseling
Arbitration
Premium Taxes & Fees
Defensive Driving
Lost Policy Locator
Producer Licensing
Renewals
SERFF Public Access
Laws, Regs, &#038; Bulletins
Forms & Applications
Guides & Publications
Employment &#038; RFPs
Active Companies
Surplus Lines Brokers
Certified Reinsurers
FOIA Request Form
CONNECT:
Facebook Page Twitter Account YouTube Page
+ Show state footer menu
Delaware's Government
Delaware's Governor
State Agencies
Elected Officials
General Assembly
Delaware Courts
State Employees
Cities & Towns
Delaware State Code
State Regulations
Business First Steps
Phone Directory
Locations Directory
Public Meetings
Voting & Elections
Transparency
Delaware Marketplace
Tax Center
Personal Income Tax
Privacy Policy
Weather & Travel
Contact State Agencies
Corporations
Franchise Tax
Gross Receipts Tax
Withholding Tax
Delaware Topics
Help Center
Mobile Apps
E-mail / Text Alerts
Social Media
Opens Delaware.gov's Facebook in a new window
Opens Delaware.gov's Twitter in a new window
Opens Delaware.gov's Flickr in a new window
Opens Delaware.gov's YouTube in a new window
Opens Delaware.gov's Instagram in a new window
Make Text Size Smaler
Reset Text Size
Make Text Size Bigger
Built by the Government Information Center
&copy;MMXXVI Delaware.gov
- Hide state footer menu