Skip to main content
Medicaid Eligibility
On this page...
About Eligibility
People Who Qualify
Eligibility by Population
Special Circumstances
How to Apply
To apply for Iowa Medicaid, go online to the HHS Benefits Portal or fill out a paper application form (467.22 KB) .pdf and take it to your local HHS office.
Para solicitar la cobertura de salud de Medicaid de Iowa, visite el Portal de beneficios del HHS o complete un formulario de solicitud en papel (488.78 KB) .pdf y entréguelo en su oficina local del HHS
Back to top
About Eligibility
Medicaid is a health insurance program for certain groups of people based on both financial and non-financial criteria.
There are multiple Medicaid plans and programs that cover specific needs, people, families, and more. Most programs have specific eligibility and income limits or guidelines. In addition, many specific Medicaid services and care programs have additional eligibility.
Back to top
People Who Qualify
You may qualify for a free or low-cost program even if you earn as much as $97,000 a year for a family of four.
A child under the age of 21.
A parent living with a child under the age of 18.
A woman who is pregnant
A child in foster care, subsidized guardianship, or subsidized adoption (up to age 21).
A child formerly in foster care.
A person in need of treatment for breast or cervical cancer or its precancerous conditions
A person who is elderly (age 65 or older)
A person who is disabled according to Social Security standards.
An adult between the ages of 19 and 64 and whose income is at or below 133% of the FPL.
A person who is blind or disabled.
A person who is a resident of Iowa and a U.S. citizen or qualified alien; non-qualified aliens may be eligible for limited Medicaid for emergency services only.
Back to top
Eligibility by Population
List items for Medicaid Eligibility by Population
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) Recipients
SSI is a federal cash assistance program administered by the Social Security Administration (SSA). Individuals are eligible for SSI if they have limited income and resources and are age 65 or over, blind, or have a disability. SSA sets the financial eligibility criteria and determines individual eligibility. SSI beneficiaries are automatically eligible to receive Medicaid in Iowa.
Women
Medicaid offers special aid to women in Iowa who are pregnant. Applicants must meet certain age, financial, and other non-financial requirements to qualify and receive these services.
Medicaid for Pregnant Women - On January 7, 2025, Iowa HHS announced federal approval to extend postpartum coverage . The current coverage of 60 days post-birth will expand to 12 months for families within 215% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL). The implementation date has yet to be announced.
Medically Needy
Medically Needy, or the Spend Down Program, is available to parents or caretakers, children under age 18, and SSI-related individuals, whose income is too high for Medicaid, but their medical costs are so high that it uses up most of their income.
Those who qualify for Medically Needy are responsible for paying some of the costs of their medical expenses.
Medicaid eligibility is granted when spend down is met . Spend down is the process in which a Medically Needy person’s excess income is obligated for allowable medical expenses to reduce countable income to the household’s medically needy income level.
Children & Youth
Generally, to qualify for children’s benefits, the child must be age 18 or younger; however, eligibility qualifications based on age vary by program.
Former Foster Care Youth , which includes Medicaid for Independent Young Adults (MIYA), and Expanded Medicaid for Independent Young Adults (E-MIYA)
Children's Medicaid - to be eligible for these coverage groups, the individual must be under age 19 and have a gross household income under 167% of the FPL. Infants under the age of 1 have a household income limit of 375% of the FPL.
Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) / Healthy & Well Kids Iowa (Hawki) , which overs children under 19 in families with too much income to qualify for Medicaid.
Children & Adults with Disabilities
People with special needs or disabilities can qualify for specific programs as well, including:
Medicaid for Kids with Special Needs (MKSN)
Home & Community-Based Service Waivers (HCBS), which covers: People who have AIDS or HIV (AIDS/HIV)
People who have a brain injury (BI)
Children who have a serious mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder (CMH)
People who are elderly (EW)
People who are blind or have a disability (HD)
People who have an intellectual disability (ID)
People who have a physical disability (PD)
State Supplementary Assistance, which supplements income of aged, blind, or persons with disabilities who receive federal SSI.
Adults Over Age 65
People over age 65 can qualify for programs aimed at at healthy living, aging, and care, including:
Program of All Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) , for ages 55+ to blend Medicaid and Medicare funding.
Home & Community-based Service Program , which offers and elderly waiver for home-based care settings
Medicare Savings Program , which helps low-income individuals with Medicare premium payments, coinsurance and deductibles, including related programs: Qualified Medicare Beneficiary Coverage (QMB)
Specified Low-income Medicare Beneficiary (SLMB)
Expanded-Specified Low-income Medicare Beneficiary (E-SLMB)
Qualified Disabled Working Persons (QDWP)
Adults
Adults may qualify for many of the previously mentioned programs, as well as:
Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment
Family Medical Assistance Program (FMAP)
Iowa Health & Wellness Plan (IHAWP)
Iowa Family Planning Program (FPP)
Health Insurance Premium Payment (HIPP)
Back to top
Special Circumstances
Some circumstances may impact eligibility for Medicaid programs. These include:
Presumptive Eligibility
Presumptive Eligibility (PE) provides Medicaid coverage for a limited time while HHS makes a formal Medicaid eligibility determination. The goal of the PE process is to offer immediate healthcare coverage to people likely to be Medicaid eligible, before there has been a full Medicaid determination.
PE is based on a household’s statements regarding their circumstances and income. A qualified entity* enters the applicant’s information into the Medicaid Presumptive Eligibility Portal to determine if the applicant qualifies. If determined to be eligible, the applicant will have temporary Medicaid eligibility during the PE period.
Individuals who may be eligible for PE include:
Children under 19
Pregnant women
Parents and caretakers of children under 19
Adults aged 19-64
Former foster care children under age 26
Individuals screened and diagnosed through BCCEDP and needing treatment for breast or cervical cancer
Incarcerated Individuals
Incarcerated individuals are only eligible for Medicaid when they are admitted to a non- correctional facility medical institution, such as a hospital. Payment is limited to inpatient hospital services only.
Non-citizens
Non-citizens may be Medicaid eligible, with certain immigration status. The following list outlines those details. More details about eligible immigration status from CMS can be found online for adults and children .
Qualified non-citizens
Child under 21 lawfully present in the U.S.
Asylee
Refugee
Cuban or Haitian entrant
Conditional entrant granted pre-1980
Trafficking victim and spouse, child, sibling, or parent or person with pending application for trafficking victim visa
Granted withholding of deportation
Member of a federally recognized Indian tribe or American Indian born in Canada
Compacts of Free Association (COFA) States of the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia
Unqualified non-citizens
At all ages:
Undocumented alien in the U.S. without papers or status documentation
Only at age 21 or older:
Lawful permanent residents do not have eligible immigration status for five years.
Battered non-citizen, spouse, child, or parent do not have eligible immigration status for five years.
Paroled into the U.S. for at least one year do not have eligible immigration status for five years.
Non-qualified alien lawfully admitted to the U.S. in any other alien status.
Need Help with Medicaid?
Connect with a local office
Iowa HHS office locations across the state to can help you with your application and process.
Iowa Medicaid Member Services
Call Medicaid Member Services toll-free with general questions at 1-800-338-8366. Help available in multiple languages.
Community Health Centers
You can get low-cost health care at a nearby community health center. How much you pay depends on your income.
Healthcare.gov
You may qualify for other services.
Relay Iowa TTY: 1-800-735-2942
Telephone Accessibility Assistance
Language Accessibility
Call Relay Iowa TTY
For telephone accessibility assistance if you are deaf, hard-of-hearing, deaf-blind, or have difficulty speaking.
ةیبرعلا | 简体中文 | Deutsch | Français
हिंदी | unDusdm (Karen) | 한국어 | ພາສາ
Llame a Relay Iowa TTY
Teléfono de texto para personas con problemas de audición, del habla y ceguera si necesita asistencia.
ລາວ | Pennsylfaanisch Deitsch | Русский
Српско-хрватски | Tagalog | ไทย | Tiếng Việt
Back to top
Iowa Medicaid Member Services
Email Address
[email&#160;protected]
Phone(s)
Toll Free
1-800-338-8366
Local Des Moines
515-256-4606
Fax
515-725-1351