Skip to content
Gender Health
Home
Our Specialties
Gender Health
The Gender Health Clinic at UAB Medicine provides gender-affirming care. This highly specialized program is staffed by a compassionate team of physicians, nurses, and certified clinical medical assistants who provide:
Hormone therapy
Sexual and reproductive health services
Management of common medical conditions
To make an appointment, please call 205-975-5854
More about the clinic
The Gender Health Clinic offers a unique, comprehensive approach to the medical management of gender health and features specialists in endocrinology, infectious disease, and gender-affirming gynecological services. We offer some services directly, and we make referrals for gender-affirming voice therapy, dermatology, mental health services, and certain surgical procedures.
The clinic is led by Program Director Carla R. Gool. She works with patients to improve their health outcomes, increase their connections with providers, and reduce or eliminate barriers to care that transgender and gender non-binary people face.
At UAB Medicine, we are proud to be one of the nation’s largest and most advanced academic medical centers. We serve all people, and our commitment to quality health care and compassionate service is unwavering. We welcome patients from across the world, representing diverse cultures, religions, lifestyles, and economic backgrounds. Diversity and inclusion are not just values that we uphold – they are the very foundation of the atmosphere we strive to maintain.
Gender Health Clinic (GHC)
Phone: 205-975-5854
Care Providers
Sajal Patel, MD
Endocrinology
Melanie Baucom, APP
Nursing Family, Community &#038; Health Systems
Olivia Van Gerwen, MD
Infectious Diseases
Find a Provider to Schedule an Appointment
Start your search for a healthcare provider
Are you a Physician or Provider?
24-Hour Consultation Referral Services
Refer a Patient
Related Specialties
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Services
Clinical Trials
Speak to your physician about your options and browse the link below for more information
View Clinical Trials
Featured Highlights
View All News
Winners named for fourth annual APP Champion Awards
September 23, 2026
Knee osteoarthritis: UAB Medicine expert answers common questions
September 22, 2026
Vasectomy: UAB Medicine urologist answers common questions
September 16, 2026
Latest News
View All News
How diet can help manage menopause symptoms
September 24, 2026
Student-athletes return: Prioritizing safe training and nutrition for the fall sports season
August 25, 2026
Experts share importance of back-to-school checkups
August 3, 2026
$10 million gift launches statewide effort to expand access to care in rural Alabama
June 24, 2026
Stay safe around fireworks: First aid and next steps for burns and eye injuries
June 22, 2026
By using this site you agree to our Privacy Policy .
Accept
Scroll to top of page