Rhode Island Birth Certificate
Here’s how to update your Rhode Island birth certificate.
In Rhode Island, changes to birth certificates are handled by the Rhode Island Department of Health’s Center for Vital Records .
You can update your name and/or gender marker on your Rhode Island birth certificate. Rhode Island allows M , F , and X gender markers on birth certificates. No medical documentation is required.
Do I need to update my birth certificate? In most cases, no. A birth certificate matching your current name and gender marker is a highly uncommon requirement for other forms. Although Rhode Island does allow updating birth certificates, many states do not, and many trans people forego the process due to its limited utility. However, if you decide to update your birth certificate, we are here to support you through the process!
I live in Rhode Island but I was born somehwere else—can I update my birth certificate here? No. You will need to update your birth certificate with your state or country of birth.
Fill out forms
Complete the Application for a Certified Copy of a Birth Record .
Submit your application
You can submit your application either in person or by mail.
Submit in person
To submit in person, gather:
Your completed Application for a Certified Copy of a Birth Record.
A certified copy of your name change court order .
A valid, government-issued photo ID. This could include your driver’s license, state ID, US passport, military ID, or certificate of naturalization.
Required funds in the form of a check or money order payable to “General Treasurer, State of Rhode Island”:
Cost Amount
Filing fee $10
Certified copy of the amended birth certificate $22
Additional copies (each) $18
Total $50
Bring all documents to the Center for Vital Records:
Rhode Island Department of Health Center for Vital Records
Simpson Hall 6 Harrington Road
Cranston, Rhode Island 02920
You will not receive your amended birth certificate the same day as you appear at the Center for Vital Records. It will be mailed to you after your application has been processed.
You can save time at the Center for Vital Records by calling (401) 222-5339 to schedule an appointment to submit your application.
If you are also updating your gender marker, The Center for Vital Records will prepare an affidavit to sign while you are there.
Submit by mail
To submit your application by mail, gather:
Your completed Application for a Certified Copy of a Birth Record.
A certified copy of your name change court order . (This will be returned to you.)
A readable photocopy of your valid, government-issued photo ID. This could include your driver’s license, state ID, US passport, military ID, or certificate of naturalization.
Required funds in the form of a check or money order payable to “General Treasurer, State of Rhode Island”:
Cost Amount
Filing fee $10
Certified copy of the amended birth certificate $25
Additional copies (each) $18
Total $53
If you are updating your gender marker, you will need to contact the Center for Vital Records to request an affidavit before mailing your application:
Call the Center for Vital Records at (401) 222-5339 .
Inform the office that you are seeking to change the gender marker on your Rhode Island birth certificate and that you need an affidavit.
Tell them the gender marker currently on your birth certificate and the gender you would like to update it to.
Give them your biographical information including your name at birth, date of birth, place of birth, and current legal name (if you changed it with the court).
After this request, the office will prepare a formal affidavit for you and send it by email or mail.
Once you receive the affidavit, sign it in the presence of a notary, and have them notarize it.
Mail all documents to:
Rhode Island Department of Health
Center for Vital Records
Simpson Hall
6 Harrington Road
Cranston, Rhode Island 02920
Receive your amended birth certificate
Updated Rhode Island birth certificates will be marked as “amended”. Names will be specifically marked as amended when changed. Gender markers will not be specifically marked as amended when changed.