An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Here's how you know
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government
organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS
A lock icon or https:// means you've safely connected
to the official website. Share sensitive information
only on official, secure websites.
This page, Probate and Family Court eFiling: Change of Name, is
offered by
Massachusetts Court System
Probate and Family Court
Show more
Probate and Family Court eFiling: Change of Name
Helpful information on eFiling a Change of Name in the Probate and Family Court
Skip table of contents
Table of Contents
Show More Table of contents
top
Table of Contents
You skipped the table of contents section.
User Guide: Change of Name
Coming soon
Getting Started
Change of Name for Adult
Change of Name for Adult
+
Gather and fill out all necessary name change forms. Please refer to Checklist of Forms Change of Name for Adult .
Name Change information and court forms:
Name Change Information
How to legally change your name as an adult
Change of Name Checklist for Adults
Name Change forms
For additional information and assistance, please visit one of our Probate and Family Court Virtual Registries .
Change of Name for Minor
Change of Name for Minor
+
Gather and fill out all necessary name change forms . Please refer to the Checklist of Forms Change of Name for Minor .
Name Change information and court forms:
Name Change Information
How to legally change the name of a child under 18
Change of Name Checklist for Minors
Name Change forms
For additional information and assistance, please visit one of our Probate and Family Court Virtual Registries .
Uniform Probate and Family Court Practice XXXV: Change of name actions
How do I eFile my Change of Name forms?
Access the eFiling site to register at eFileMA and click on the "Get Started!" icon. You will need to create an account and include a debit or credit card on file. If you do not have a debit or credit card, you can use your banking information. You will also find self-help tutorials, Frequently Asked Questions, and web training sessions to help you eFile for the first time.
For a brief overview of the eFiling Process in the Probate and Family Court Department, you can go to eFiling in the Probate and Family Court .
Important notice:
Please note:
You can still file your Change of Name paperwork directly at the courthouse in person or by mailing.
What is the cost to eFile a Change of Name for an Adult and Minor?
The initial court filing fee for Change of Name for Adult or Minor is $165. In addition to the inital court filing fee, there is a one-time fee of $22, plus a credit card processing fee (of total amount). There could also be a $15 citation fee, if ordered by the court, after your case has been reviewed.
I want to change the name for my family, what is the fee?
There is only one filing fee of $165 per family, however, each adult and/or child(ren) need to have their own petition and required documents filed. There could also be a $15 citation fee, if ordered by the court, after your case has been reviewed. Each petition and required filings must be filed one at a time, each being given its own filing number. If there are multiple petitions being filed for the family, it is asked that they be submitted into the eFiling system on the same day and time (one right after the other).
Once you complete the first petition and it has been submitted with the fees paid, then file the next petition and required documents. In the payment fee section, select “waiver” as the payment option. This will remove all fees associated with the filing and will then show $0. Continue this process for each additional child who is requesting a Change of Name.
The additional petitions will only be accepted by the court if the fee has been paid on the adult/first petition filed, unless you are filing an Affidavit of Indigency Definition A form you can file to waive court fees if you are unable to pay those fees. (please see process further down the page).
What if I can’t afford to pay the filing fee?
You can file an Affidavit of Indigency with your filings. You may also need to include the Supplement to the Affidavit of Indigency form. These forms and additional information can be found here: Apply for indigency (waiver of court fees and costs).
What do I use for payment when filing an Affidavit of Indigency with all my other filings?
When you are finished uploading all of the required filings for your Change of Name, in the fee section, select “waiver” as your payment option. This will remove all fees associated with the filing and will then show $0.
Important notice:
Please note:
If your Affidavit of Indigency is not approved by the court after your eFiling has been accepted, you may need to pay the court fee of $180 to have you case completed. You will be contacted by the court if fees need to be paid.
What happens after my case has been accepted?
After you have filed your petition and all required documents, the Court will refer your case for a review.
The Court may allow your change of name without you having to appear at the courthouse OR the Court may issue an Order of Notice (CJ-P 130) requiring a citation to issue for you to give notice to interested parties. You will need to complete service as outlined in the court’s order.
If I received a citation (Notice and Order), can I eFile the Return of Service when it is completed?
Yes, you can eFile your the Return of Service Definition The second page of a summons, filled out by a sheriff or constable hired to serve court papers to a defendant, that provides proof that the defendant was served. as a subsequent filing under the docket # the court has provided you. There will not be any additional fees to eFile into your existing Change of Name case. You also have the option to file in person or by mail.
I have read all of the information on Mass.gov and I still need help with this process. Who can help me?
You will need to contact or visit the local Probate and Family Court you are filing your Change of Name in or visit one of our Probate and Family Court Virtual Registries .
You can also access the court’s service centers , but not all locations have this option. To talk to a service center online using Zoom, see Accessing Court Service Centers and Law Libraries remotely .
Are you having a technical issue with the Tyler eFiling website?
You must contact Tyler using the number provided if there are any technical issues within the Tyler website.
To contact Tyler: 1 (800) 297-5377 .
All procedural questions can still be directed to the court.
Contact
Probate and Family Court locations
+
Online
Probate and Family Court locations
Related
Preferred Order for eFiling in the Probate and Family Court
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
Yes
No
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
How can we improve the page? *
Please do not include personal or contact information.
You will not get a response
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Court System . Please limit your input to 500 characters.
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Court System .
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Massachusetts Court System .
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
Feedback
Term Definition definition here.