0
All 2SLGBTQ+ Oklahomans deserve access to safe & affirming healthcare regardless of employment, disability status, gender, or where we call home.
Health + Wellness
Trans Healthcare Update
Trans Healthcare Update
SB 904 (2026)
Expanded Attacks on Health Care for Trans Folks - SB 904
by Sen Todd Gollihare and Rep Erick Harris, effective with emergency upon being signed by the Governor May 12, 2026
Passed the House 77-14, Senate 39-8
Was shucked to become anti-trans policy in March 2026
Bans the use of public funds from being granted, paid, or distributed to any entity for gender confirming care for trans people of any age
Ends Medicaid coverage for any care related to gender transition for anyone of any age
Bans state properties, facilities, or buildings from providing gender confirming care (surgical care, puberty blockers, hormones, or other drugs used to affirm gender) to trans folks of any age
This is causing immediate harm to folks who receive care at state facilities such as OU Health and OSU Medical Center.
Immediately ended any gender affirming care treatment for trans folks incarcerated in state facilities.
Criminalizes state officers or employees found in violation of the provisions of the amended statute
Does not include mental and behavioral health in the definition of gender confirming care
For folks impacted by SB 904, some folks are looking to private providers for care, including in-state providers such as Planned Parenthood Great Plains , Diversity Family Health , OKEQ Health Clinic , as well as telehealth providers such as Folx , Plume , True U , and QueerMed .
Youth Gender Affirming Care Restrictions
Like many other states, the Oklahoma Legislature is advancing numerous attacks on best practice medical care for transgender Oklahomans. We’ll continue to lift up information in statements and across social media, and provide updates on the status of care as they are available. As of May 1, 2023, Governor Kevin Stitt signed SB 613, impacting healthcare related to gender transition for trans Oklahomans under 18, with emergency. There is a 6 month tapering off period built into the bill, and litigation forthcoming. Keep your appointments if you have them. And please reach out to Freedom Oklahoma if you experience an impact on your care due to these laws.
Partners at Lambda Legal, ACLU, and ACLU of Oklahoma have filed litigation in response, including a request for preliminary injunction which was denied in October 2023. This means that presently the “tapering off” period is set to end 11/1/2023. Legal partners have appealed the decision. We will continue to keep you updated on any injunctive relief or other legal updates that may happen. You can visit Lambda Legal’s intake form here .
April 28, 2023 Instagram live conversation between Rep Mauree Turner (they/them), ACLU of Oklahoma Policy Director Cindy Nguyen (she/her), and Freedom Oklahoma Executive Director Nicole McAfee (they/she) on the Senate passage of House amended SB 613 , and what that could mean for best practice medical care for trans Oklahomans under 18.
On May 9, 2023, Freedom Oklahoma, the Campaign for Southern Equality, and ACLU of Oklahoma co-hosted a town hall to share information about SB 613, the litigation surrounding the new law, and answer questions about resources and next steps. You can watch the full video above, and find CSE’s Southern Trans Youth Emergency Project (STYEP) intake form for Oklahoma and additional resources here .
We’ll continue to share updates as understanding and impact of this policy changes. While there is an attorney offering information within the context of this conversation, none of the information presented should be taken as legal advice.
If you are interested in becoming a plaintiff in this ongoing litigation, you can visit Lambda Legal’s intake form here or email intake@acluok.org .
VARIETY CARE RESOURCE DIRECTORY
HIV self-test request form
We’re working to build the future where every 2SLGBTQ+ Oklahoman has access to healthcare.
Healthcare Resources
Recovery resources
More resources
Have you or has someone you know been discriminated against while trying to obtain healthcare? if so, please Let us know here:
HEALTH DISCRIMINATION FORM
Have you faced criminal investigation, arrest, or prosecution for receiving gender affirming medical care? Learn more about resources available at the transgender law center + if/when/how’s trans health legal fund.