JDF 205 – Motion to Waive Fees R: April 2, 2024 Page 1 of 3
JDF 205 Motion to Waive Fees
Clerk’s Event Code: MIFP
1. Case Number:
2. Case filed in: (county)
3. Background
I request that court fees be waived under C.R.S. § 13-16-103 and C.J.D. 98-01.
This form is not for everyone:
• If you are incarcerated, use form JDF 201 instead.
4. My Information
Full Legal Name:
Do you need an interpreter? No. Yes, in (language)
Date of Birth: (DD/MM/YYYY)
Social Status: Single. Married/Civil Union. Divorced. Separated. Widowed.
Mailing Address:
City: State: Zip:
Phone: Email:
5. Fees Waived
If the Court determines you qualify (found indigent), the following fees may be waived:
• Filing Fees. • Reasonable Copy Fees. • Jury Fees.
• eFiling and eService Fees (when available). • Form and Instruction fees.
If checked, please also waive:
Note: The Court can only waive its fees. Outside fees, like transcript costs, can’t be waived.
6. Automatic Qualification
Are you enrolled in one of these programs? No. [Go to Section 7]
Yes: (check all that apply)
Aid to the Blind Colorado
Old Age Pension – A and B
Supp. Security Income (SSI)
Temporary Aid for Needy Families (TANF)
Supp. Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
Aid to the Needy and Disabled (AND)
Then, leave Sections 7 through 10 blank. [Skip to Section 11]
JDF 205 – Motion to Waive Fees R: April 2, 2024 Page 2 of 3
7. Home and Work
Do you own or rent your home? Own Rent Other:
Do you have a job now? No. Yes.
If No, List the date of your last paycheck: (mm/dd/yyyy)
If Yes, My pay rate is: $ per Hour Month.
How often do you get paid? (examples: monthly, weekly)
8. Household
How many people live in your home? (include yourself)
Name Age Relationship to You Are They Financially
Dependent on You?
Yes No
Yes No
Yes No
Yes No
9. Household Income and Expenses
Monthly Income $ Amount
a. Mine (wages/commission/tips)
b. Of household members
c. Unemployment benefits
d. From your retirement funds
e. Spousal Support you get
f. Other:
g. Other:
Total Monthly Income
Monthly Expenses $ Amount
a. Rent/Mortgage
b. Groceries (above food stamps)
c. Utilities
d. Child/Spousal support you pay
e. Medical and dental costs
f. Transport costs (car, insurance)
g. Student loans and credit cards
Total Monthly Expenses
What Not to Include
• Don’t include child support, TANF, VA benefits, or food stamps as income.
• Don’t include roommates’ income.
• Exclude roommates’ share of the bills in monthly expenses.
Roommate Exception: If you share bank accounts or comingle funds.
JDF 205 – Motion to Waive Fees R: April 2, 2024 Page 3 of 3
How do you pay the bills if your income is less than your expenses?
10. Household Assets
Accounts $ Value Description
Cash Money with you or at home.
In Savings Bank Name:
In Checking Bank Name:
Property $ Value Description of Asset Money
Still Owed
Cars, boats, or RVs
Homes and land
Other property
Stocks, bonds, jewelry
and other valuables
Any other investments
Is there anything else you want the court to know about your financial situation?
Note: In some circumstances, the Court may require you to provide proof of income, assets,
or expenses before deciding your motion.
11. Verified Signature
I declare under penalty of perjury under the law of Colorado that the foregoing is true and correct.
Executed on the (date) day of (month) (year)
at City: (or other location)
and State: (or country)
Print Your Name:
Your Signature:
Lawyer Signature: (If any)