Alaska Vital Records Revision 04/2026
Alaska BIRTH Certificate Request Form Instructions
Expedited service is only available online through https://www.vitalchek.com/. Additional fees apply.
How to submit a request:
• Visit https://www.vitalchek.com/ OR
• Complete this form and submit it via mail, fax, or in-person. (Addresses, hours, and fax number are listed below)
• Include payment and a copy of your ID.
• Choose one method of submission. Please be advised that if you submit your requests via more than one
method, you will be charged for each request.
• For all current fees and processing times please visit our website: www.vitalrecords.alaska.gov
Who may obtain a birth certificate?
• Parent(s) listed on the current certificate.
• Child listed on the certificate (if 14 years or older) along with current school ID.
• Legal Guardian with certified guardianship papers.
• Third-Party requests must have notarized letter of consent for the release of information from the certificate
holder or legal guardian.
• Attorneys & Government Agencies must have a letter on their letterhead stating who they represent and why
the record is needed. Supporting original certified or notarized documentation must be provided.
Note: Faxed legal documents are NOT accepted.
Accepted forms of ID (please send a photocopy, not the original):
• Driver's license or other state-issued ID
• Passport
• Military ID
• Tribal/BIA card (with picture)
• School ID
• If you have none of the above forms of ID, please contact (907) 465-3391 for assistance
• If your ID is expired, it must be less than one year expired
Mailing Address and Fax Number
Health Analytics and Vital Records
P.O. Box 110675
Juneau, Alaska 99811-0675
Fax orders: (907) 465-3618
Juneau Office
Walk-in Office Hours:
Mon – Fri, 8:30am – 4:30pm
5441 Commercial Blvd.
Juneau, Alaska 99801
Phone: (907) 465-3391
Anchorage Office
Walk-in Office Hours:
Mon – Fri, 8:30am – 4:30pm
3901 Old Seward Hwy, Ste. 101
Anchorage, Alaska 99503
Phone: (907) 269-0991
Please note: All Paternity, Adoptions, or Corrections (including Legal Name Change) to a birth certificate
must be mailed or hand delivered as original documents and/or certified copies of forms are required.
The standard processing time for these services is 3 months and expedited services are not available.
For additional information on how to amend a birth certificate, please contact our Special Services Unit at
(907) 465-1200.
Alaska Vital Records Revision 04/2026
Alaska BIRTH Certificate Request Form
Requests that do not include an applicant signature, copy of a government issued ID, and payment will not be processed. This form is only for the
purpose of the financial transaction and location of the requested record. For expedited service, order through https://www.vitalchek.com/
Applicant Information
Applicant name Choose your relationship to child named on the record:
Agency name (if applicable) Self Parent
Email address Legal representative (with documentation)
Phone number Purpose of request:
Mailing address Personal records Driver’s license
(Street / PO Box) Legal purposes Government benefits
Passport Other (please specify):
(City, State, Zip) APPLICANT SIGNATURE
(REQUIRED)
Information needed to locate the record
Full name on the record
(first) (middle) (last)
Date of birth City or village of birth
Mother / Parent A’s
name prior to marriage
(first) (middle) (last)
Father / Parent B’s
name prior to marriage
(first) (middle) (last)
Order information
Count Cost
Certified birth certificates
($30 first copy, $25 each additional copy of the same record ordered at the same time) $
Heirloom certificates ($55 first copy; $50 each additional copy of the same record ordered at the same time)
Rie Munoz “The Embrace” $
Jon Van Zyle “Polar Bears” $
Paternity, correction, adoption, legal name change, or delayed registration processing fee ($30) $
Apostille fee ($12 first copy, $2 each additional copy; for foreign country use only) $
Apostille country (foreign countries only):
Public Record White Copy ($15, use for births that occurred more than 100 years prior to application date) $
Domestic shipping information (select one or call 907-465-3391 for information on international shipping)
Regular mail (no fee, no tracking) $
USPS Priority Mail® with tracking ($13.00) $
USPS Priority Mail® with tracking and signature on delivery ($18.00)
Note: Alaska Vital Records is not responsible for items once they have been shipped. If your documents cannot
be delivered, are returned, or are lost, you will need to submit a new request along with your ID and payment.
$
Total payment to be submitted: $
Did you sign above and include a copy of your ID?
Did you include legal documentation if this request is not for yourself or your child?
Payment information (only complete for mail or fax applications. We do not process refunds for duplicate orders.)
Check or Money Order (made out to Alaska Vital Records Office)
There will be a $30 NSF fee for returned checks.
Cash (walk-in ONLY)
Credit / Debit Card (We accept Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express; complete information below)
Name on card Expiration date Billing ZIP Code
Card Number Cardholder signature
Clear Form