English
Spanish
Get Legal Help
Legal Topics
Housing
Family and Safety
Money and Estate
Military, Immigration, and Employment
Driving and Expungement
Other Legal Issues
Information and Forms
Events
About
Mission
Who We Are
Donate
Partner Resources
Name Change
This form may be helpful if you would like to ask the court to change your name or your minor child&#8217;s name.
What are the qualifications?
For the minor name change forms when parents agree:
You would like to change the name of your minor child.
The minor child is not in jail or prison.
You are the parent or guardian of the minor child.
The child is less than seventeen (17) years old.
The other parent has consented, or will consent, to the name change of the child.
For the minor name change forms when parents disagree:
You would like to change the name of your minor child.
The minor child is not in jail or prison.
You are the parent or guardian of the minor child.
The child is less than seventeen (17) years old.
Consent from the other parent or guardian is not required because any of the situations listed in Indiana Code 31-19-9 .
For the adult name change forms:
You would like to change your name.
You are not in jail or prison.
You are seventeen (17) years old, or older.
You are not required to register as a sex or violent offender.
You are not trying to avoid creditors.
Before Starting
We recommend you set aside 1-2 hours to complete all forms.
Get Started
info
We’ve provided instructions on how to complete these forms on your own but representing yourself in court should not be taken lightly, and there are many reasons why hiring an attorney is a good idea. In fact, we suggest that even if you use the forms provided on this site that you still talk with an attorney before submitting the forms to a court to get the best result possible. If you do choose to represent yourself, click here for what you need to know.
Complete Name Change Forms
Complete the Name Change Forms packet attached below. These forms can be printed and completed with handwritten answers, or they can be filled out on the computer and then printed.
Glossary of Legal Terms
File Name Change Forms
Follow the guidance in the Name Change Forms Instructions to file your forms with the court. Review the resources in this section for information about filing.
Court Contact Information
Filing Fee Frequently Asked Questions
How to File Forms with the Court in Person
How to Electronically File Forms with the Court
After a Case Is Filed
Once the court approves your court forms, you may need to take more steps. Review the resources in this section for help and information.
After a Case Is Filed
Download Blank Forms
description Minor Name Change-Parents Agree Instructions
download_for_offline
description Minor Name Change-Parents Agree Forms
download_for_offline
description Minor Name Change-Parents Disagree Instructions
download_for_offline
description Minor Name Change-Parents Disagree Forms
download_for_offline
description Adult Name Change Instructions
download_for_offline
description Adult Name Change Forms
download_for_offline
Free and Low Cost Legal Help
Easily find organizations, services, or legal clinics available near you. Simply enter your zip code or county to get started.
Get Started
info
Representing yourself in court should not be taken lightly, and there are many reasons why hiring an attorney is a good idea. We suggest that even if you use the forms provided on this site that you still talk to an attorney before submitting the forms to a court to get the best result possible. Using the forms and legal information on this site does not make you a client of Indiana Legal Help nor does Indiana Legal Help accept responsibility or liability for action taken by users of this information. Communication with Indiana Legal Help is not protected by attorney client privilege or the work product doctrine—that means information shared with Indiana Legal Help may be admissible in court.