Skip to main content
Other Matters
Changing Your Legal Name
Applying for a legal name change in Connecticut is a simple, straightforward process. Just follow these 5 steps:
Adult name change
Locate the Probate Court that covers the town you reside in by visiting ctprobate.gov .
Download the two forms you’ll need:
Name change petition ( PC-901 and PC-901CI for an adult, PC-900 and PC-900CI for a minor)
Name change affidavit ( PC-910 for an adult, PC-910A for a minor)
Once complete, file your petition and affidavit along with a certified copy of your long-form birth certificate. You will also need to provide two forms of identification, one of which must include a photo. You can submit these items together online, in person, or by mail.
Wait for a Notice of Hearing to be mailed to you. Notice of the petition for change of name will be sent to the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection to determine if the petitioner is on the Sex Offender Registry or Deadly Weapons Registry.
Attend your Probate Court hearing. If you didn’t already submit your two forms of identification, bring them with you. Be prepared to speak to the Judge. Before granting a name change, the Judge will need to make sure it’s not being done for any unlawful purpose, such as to avoid pending legal actions or consequences.
Minor name change
For a minor child 17 years old or younger, in addition to the above steps:
A parent, guardian or other adult person permitted by the Court must file the name change petition and affidavit on the minor’s behalf.
At the hearing, the Judge will want to hear why this change is in the best interest of the minor.
In most circumstances, the Judge will decide the name change petition at the hearing.
Find It Fast
Close
Forms and Documents
Forms
Children&#039;s Matters - Adoption - DCF Voluntary Services - Emancipation - Guardianship of Estate - Guardianship of Person - Parentage - Termination of Parental Rights - Uniform Transfer to Minors Act (UTMA) Conservatorship Intellectual Disabilities Mental Health Commitments - Adult Commitment - Child Commitment - Drug & Alcohol Commitment - ElectroConvulsive Therapy - Involuntary Medication Other Matters - Cemetery Associations - Confirmation of Gender Change - Foreign Subpoena - Health Care/End of Life Disputes - Name Change - Power of Attorney - Protective Services for the Elderly - Quarantine, Isolation, Vaccination - Release of Financial Hold - Restore Rights to Purchase, Possess or Transport Firearms - Sterilization PC Form Trusts & Estates - Decedent&#039;s Estate - Trust
View all forms
Documents
User Guides
Reports
Public Meetings
Online Tools
Case Lookup Tool
Court Location Finder
Fees & Expenses Tools
eFiling
eBilling
Close