Skip To Main Content This website is AudioEye enabled and is being optimized for accessibility. To open the AudioEye Toolbar, press "shift + =". Some assistive technologies may require the use of a passthrough function before this keystroke. For more information, activate the button labeled "Explore your accessibility options".
Transgender Health
Treatment & Care Babs Siperstein PROUD Center Transgender Health
Transgender Health
The
Babs Siperstein PROUD Center recognizes the unique needs of the transgender community. We take pride
in being New Jersey’s leader in providing comprehensive services
and care for transgender adults.
Our hospital as a whole embodies “treating people how they wish to
be treated” which includes respecting pronouns, preferred names
and gender identity. We are devoted to making you feel welcomed and safe.
We look forward to being a part of your journey. Whether you are beginning,
in the process or in the monitoring stage of your transition, we are well
equipped to serve your needs.
Medical Services for Transgender Adults
Primary care services
Immunizations
Gender affirmation (hormone therapy and monitoring)
Hysterectomy
Breast/chest health care
Cervical cancer screening
Education (including injection training)
Referrals to transgender-friendly services
Steps to Affirmation Therapy
At the PROUD Center, we acknowledge the process it takes for individuals
to make their first appointment. That is why from your initial phone call
we ensure that we guide you through every step of your journey.
At your first appointment, it is important to express your personal goals
for your transition to the provider.
The PROUD Center follows evidence-based guidelines to direct your therapy.
To ensure your health is not compromised during your transition, we personalize
the affirmation therapy to match your specific health needs.
We also keep in mind that not everyone’s transition is the same.
Some may transition faster than others. We will work with you to achieve
your goals. Your health is very important to us, therefore it is vital
for that you attend your scheduled appointments and obtain your required
bloodwork.
We look forward to being a part of your journey.
For more information please, feel free to call us
1-855-776-8334 .
Other Resources
The World Professional Association for Transgender Health
The World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH) works
to further the understanding and treatment of gender dysphoria by professionals
in medicine, psychology, law, social work, counseling, psychotherapy,
family studies, sociology, anthropology, sexology, speech and voice therapy,
and other related fields.
UCSF’s Center of Excellence for Transgender Health
A resource for transgender health research about and best practices for
gender diverse community engagement.
U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
Visit this page to learn about the federal guidelines for health screenings.
Our Quality
Testimonials
Appointments
“Finding a place offering specific care for people like me is almost a guarantee I’ll be provided more respect and kindness. Feeling welcomed and included makes a big difference.”
Luz
Read More
“When I look at my body now, it feels like this is how I’ve always been, which is pretty incredible. It just feels natural.”
Gwyndolin
Read More
"At PROUD, the staff members look at you as a person. I recommend it to everyone I know."
Abraham
Read More
View All LGBTQ+ Stories
Watch Testimonial
Watch Testimonial
Watch Testimonial
View All Posts
Nov 14, 2024
RWJBarnabas Health Named a 2024 NJBIZ Empowering Women Honoree
Jul 1, 2024
RWJUH Somerset Babs Siperstein PROUD Center Nurse Recognized for Compassionate Care of LGBTQ+ Patients
Jun 5, 2024
RWJBarnabas Health Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leaders and Employees Join the Jersey PRIDE Parade and Festival
menu
View Doctors
RWJ University Hospital Somerset
110 Rehill Avenue
Somerville ,
NJ
08876
USA
(908) 685-2200
Get Directions
Hours
Monday-Saturday 8:00am-9:00pm
Sunday CLOSED
(855) 776-8334
Not finding the treatment you're looking for?
View All Services
Opens in new window
PDF Download
Word Download
Excel Download
PowerPoint Download
Document Download
Explore your accessibility options