Skip to main content
About IDPH
Gender Reassignment
Resources
Forms
Laws & Rules
Gender Change
Effective July 1, 2023, an amendment to state law allows people to change the gender on their birth certificate by signing a statement affirming their gender designation or intersex condition.
An individual born in Illinois, with an existing Illinois birth certificate, may submit an Affidavit and Certificate of Correction Request form to the Department requesting to have the gender changed on their own birth certificate.
The Affidavit and Certificate of Correction Request form would need to be completed in its entirety by the individual seeking a change in the sex designation (M, F, X ) on the birth certificate; the form must be signed and notarized. The applicant must be of legal age (or the parent/co-parent or guardian if not of legal age) to complete the form.
Gender Change with Name Change
For an individual simultaneously seeking to have a name change, a certified copy of the Court Order of Legal Name Change also must be submitted to the Division of Vital Records. Please indicate on your request to have your name changed in the second section of the Affidavit and Certificate of Correction Request form.
The department will review the request and if all requirements are met, will create a new birth record reflecting the new sex designation and name change, if appropriate. The original birth certificate and all documents submitted are placed in a sealed and impounded file which cannot be opened except upon order of the circuit court, request of the person or as provided by regulation.
The fee is $15 and includes one certified copy of the new birth certificate. Additional copies are $2 each if ordered at the same time.
Resources
List of County Clerks
Valid Government Issued Photo ID
Forms
Affidavit and Certificate of Correction Request
Laws & Rules
Vital Records Act
Vital Records Code
Footer
Back to top
RESOURCES
Advisory Boards
Office of the Inspector General
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Office of Governor JB Pritzker
Illinois Jobs
Illinois.gov home page
Employment Opportunities
Community Ambassadors
List of Local Health Departments
QUICKLINKS
Contact Us
File a Health Care Complaint
Diseases A-Z List
FOIA Requests
Health Data
IDPH Calendar
Laws & Rules
Forms & Publications
Grant Accountability and Transparency (GATA)
Language Assistance Services