GOVERNOR’S VETO MESSAGE
December 6, 2023
To the Honorable Members of the Assembly:
I am vetoing Assembly Bill 465 in its entirety.
This bill would prohibit, with limited exceptions,
healthcare providers from engaging in, causing the
engagement in, or making referrals for certain medical
intervention practices upon an individual under 18
years of age for the purpose of changing the minor's
body to correspond to a sex that is discordant with the
minor's biological sex. In addition, the bill would
require the Board of Nursing, the Medical Examining
Board and the Physician Assistant Affiliated
Credentialing Board to investigate any allegation that
any person licensed or certified by the respective
boards has violated any of the prohibitions described
in the bill. Finally, the bill would require the Board of
Nursing, the Medical Examining Board, and the
Physician Assistant Affiliated Credentialing Board to
revoke the license or certification of any provider that
is found to have violated any of the prohibitions
described in the bill.
I am vetoing this bill in its entirety because I object
to restricting physicians from providing evidence-
based and medically appropriate care to their patients,
restricting parents from making decisions with
physicians to ensure their kids receive the healthcare
they need, and preventing patients from receiving that
basic, life-saving care.
Healthcare providers should be trusted to provide
medically appropriate and accurate information,
treatment, and care for their patients without the
unnecessary political interference of politicians.
Gender-affirming care is recognized by most major
medical associations as the evidence-based treatment
for transgender and gender-nonconforming youth with
gender dysphoria. The American Medical Association,
the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American
Psychological Association, and the American
Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry have all
stated that gender-affirming care saves lives.
Further, and especially important to me personally,
I am vetoing this bill in its entirety because I object to
the Legislature’s ongoing efforts to manufacture and
perpetuate false, hateful, and discriminatory anti-
LGBTQ policies and rhetoric in our state. This type of
legislation, and the rhetoric beget by pursuing it,
harms LGBTQ people and kids' mental health,
emboldens anti-LGBTQ hate and violence, and
threatens the safety and dignity of LGBTQ
Wisconsinites. I will veto any bill that makes
Wisconsin a less safe, less inclusive, and less
welcoming place for LGBTQ people and kids. I
support LGBTQ Wisconsinites, and I will continue to
do everything in my power to defend them, protect
their rights, and keep them safe.
Respectfully submitted,
TONY EVERS
Governor