Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Arizona Identity Documents
Arizona Name Change Laws
What to file:
The State of Arizona provides generic name change forms or you can use the petitions provided by your local superior court .
You must file an Application for Name Change for an Adult to receive a hearing.
Where to file:
File the petition and supporting documents at your county superior court .
Cost:
Check with your local superior court as fees vary. The typical fee in Arizona is around $320.
If you are unable to afford this, you may be eligible for a Deferral or Waiver of Court Fees .
Name Changes for Minors Under 18:
For instructions on legal name changes for minors under 18 in Arizona, see NCTE's Name Changes for Minors in Arizona resource.
Legal Details:
To obtain a legal name change in Arizona, the applicant must submit a petition to the court for a name change order. The court may give notice to interested parties if deemed necessary, except in circumstances where there is a protective order in place OR if the applicant is the victim of a stalking offense. (Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§ 12-601 & 12-602).
Arizona Drivers License Policy & Procedures
In order to update name and gender on an Arizona ID, the applicant must first change their name with the Social Security Administration and then submit (1) a certified copy of the court order for name change and (2) a signed statement from a licensed physician attesting that the applicant is irrevocably committed to the gender-change process. The physician’s statement must include the physician’s license number and be presented within three months of the date it was signed.
Holders of an Arizona driver's license or state ID card must update the name on their license within 10 days of receiving a legal name change. The Arizona Department of Transportation addresses name changes here .
Arizona Birth Certificate Laws
Arizona will amend the gender marker on a birth certificate "for a person who has undergone a sex change operation or has a chromosomal count that establishes the sex of the person as different [than on original certificate]." (Ariz. Rev. Stat. § 36-337 (A)(3) (2006)).
To apply for an amended birth certificate the applicant must submit:
a birth certificate request form
an affidavit to correct a birth certificate
a notarized letter from the physician verifying the requirements above, if requesting a gender marker change
a certified copy of the court ordered name change, if requesting a name change
and any applicable fees paid by money order (no personal checks)
Note: Arizona recommends discussing your case directly with the Office of Vital Records before submitting documentation.
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe