Skip to main content
Search Equality Utah
Donate
This is a carousel outlining featured items. Navigate using the arrow buttons.
25 Years of Equality
Allies: Take Flight
Starring Betty Who
The party that funds the progress. Your ticket fuels the work ahead for LGBTQ advocacy and policy in Utah.
Get Tickets
Utah&#039;s Leading LGBTQ Civil Rights Organization
Learn More
Working toward a fair and just Utah for LGBTQ Utahns and their families— Education, Advocacy, and Political Action is who we are.
Education
Uplifting students, businesses, and everyone through education.
Learn More
Advocacy
Working with lawmakers to advance and protect LGBTQ equality.
Learn More
Political Action
Supporting fair-minded leaders who champion values for all Utahns.
Learn More
Equality Utah PAC&#039;s
Candidate Endorsements
Candidates we endorse are interviewed by The Equality Utah PAC Board of Directors.
See Endorsements
20+ years of impact
Since 2001, Equality Utah has shaped our state to create a more fair and just Utah for LGBTQ Utahns and their families.
This is a timeline outlining featured years. Navigate using the arrow buttons or timeline dots.
2015 Made Non-Discrimination the Law
We secured landmark protections for LGBTQ Utahns when Governor Herbert signed SB 296, a historic law making Utah one of the first conservative states to protect LGBTQ people from discrimination in employment and housing.
2016 Established Harvey Milk Blvd
Through collaboration with the Salt Lake City Council and Mayor, we dedicated 20 blocks of downtown&#8217;s 900 South as Harvey Milk Boulevard, honoring the pioneering gay rights leader.
2017 Repealed &#8220;No Promo Homo&#8221;
We overturned Utah&#8217;s &#8216;No Promo Homo&#8217; law with SB 196, which had prohibited discussions of LGBTQ people in public schools, preventing teachers from intervening when LGBTQ students faced bullying.
2019 Passed Hate Crimes Protections
We secured passage of Utah&#8217;s first comprehensive hate crimes law, SB 103, ensuring LGBTQ people, minority communities, and religious groups would have protection under state law.
2019 Banned Conversion Therapy
We secured a ban on conversion therapy, working with state regulators to protect LGBTQ minors from the harmful discredited practices aimed at changing a persons sexual orientation or gender identity.
2023 Codified Conversion Therapy Protections
We secured the unanimous passage of HB 228 both in the Utah House and Senate, transforming Utah&#8217;s regulatory ban on conversion therapy into permanent state law.
2024 Secured LGBTQ Protections in Religious Freedom Law
We secured unprecedented LGBTQ protections within Utah&#8217;s Religious Freedom bill, making Utah one of few states to include LGBTQ safeguards in RFRA legislation that typically undermines these rights.
View Our History
Subscribe to our mailing list
Staying informed makes a difference
Join us
Master the art of advocacy
Join Utah’s leading LGBTQ advocacy organization and make a difference on your campus.
Our yearly ambassador cohort is made up of students from universities and colleges across our state. Their role is to support their LGBTQ community on campus, get involved in local government, and work to build relationships in their communities.
Explore the Program
Stay Informed
View Our Newsroom
Stay up to date on Equality Utah, explore our collection of news stories, and stay informed about the headlines shaping our community.
Newsroom
Get Involved
Register to Vote
Rights are won only by those who make their voices heard. You have the power to shape your community. Register to vote today.
Vote
Support
Donate to Equality Utah
Help us create a Utah where LGBTQ Utahns thrive alongside all Utahns. Support Equality Utah today.
Donate
Training Program
Business Equality Leadership
Become the next generation of business leadership that fosters belonging in the workforce.
Explore Program
Upcoming Events
This is a carousel featuring events. Navigate using the navigation buttons.
Event
10.03.2026
Allies: Take Flight
For 25 years, Allies has been Utah&#8217;s brightest night of community, advocacy, and celebration. This year, we&#8217;re reimagining the evening and inviting everyone aboard.
Event Details
Event
PAC Brunch
Brunch with a mission! Our annual PAC Brunch raises funds to power our PAC to elect more pro-equality policymakers across Utah.
Event Details
Change starts with you
Help us build a more fair and just Utah for LGBTQ Utahns and their familes
Donate Today
English Español
Français
中文 (繁體)
Português
한국어