Quick Links
Self-Insured Workers' Compensation
File a Complaint
Careers
About Us
Contact Us
State of Nevada Links
Sitemap
File a Complaint
The Consumer Services Section of the Nevada Division of Insurance assists with all consumer inquiries. We can help clarify your policy and address any questions regarding claims or insurance companies.
We encourage all consumers facing difficulties to resolve their issues directly with their insurance company and/or agent. Consumers are welcome to submit a formal complaint if these efforts do not result in a satisfactory outcome. An investigator will be assigned to the case and will work with the consumer, insurance company, and/or agent to help resolve the issue.
If the issue cannot be resolved with your insurance company, please file your complaint online using our secure online complaint form.
Consumer Complaint Process
When a Division Consumer Services Investigator receives a Consumer Complaint, the Investigator will:
Log the complaint into the Complaint Database;
Send an acknowledgement letter to the consumer submitting the Consumer Complaint; and,
Send a letter and a complete copy of your Consumer Complaint to the insurance company and/or the agent or broker associated with your Consumer Complaint.
Please be patient as the Division investigates your complaint.
The insurance company generally must reply to the issues addressed in the Consumer Complaint and respond to the Division within 20 business days.
If you have not heard from the Division's Consumer Services section regarding your complaint within 30 days from the date on your acknowledgement letter, please feel free to contact the Consumer Services Investigator noted on your acknowledgement letter to inquire about the status of your complaint.
Examples of Complaints Addressed by the Nevada Division of Insurance
Improper denial or delay in settlement of a claim
Alleged improper cancellation or nonrenewal of an insurance policy
Problems concerning insurance premiums and rates
Alleged misconduct by an agent or broker (misrepresentation, theft of premiums, etc.)
Problems related to Bail and Bail Agencies or Agents.
Problems relating to medical necessity of a treatment, an experimental or investigational therapy for certain medical conditions, or a claim denial for emergency or urgent medical services.
The Division does not provide legal representation or legal advice. If you are already represented by an attorney or already have a legal action pending regarding the circumstances of your complaint, the Division may not be able to further pursue your complaint as a Consumer Complaint. Filing a consumer complaint with the Division will not extend any time limitations specified in policy provisions, statutes, or regulations.
If you have used online tools or software, including artificial intelligence (AI) resources such as ChatGPT, Grok, Claude, Copilot, or others, to prepare or verify your information, please ensure that all details are accurate and reflect official sources.
The Division has observed an increase in complaints and correspondence containing incorrect or misleading information about insurance policies, Nevada law, and Division publications that originated from these types of resources.
File Your Complaint Online
Login to Your Existing Complaint
Alternatively, you can print a copy of the complaint form and mail it to the nearest Division of Insurance office.
The complaint form is available in the following languages:
(Spanish) (Tagalog) (Traditional Chinese)
Confidentiality
When you fill out a complaint form and you initial the "Confidential" box, the Division will keep the records of your consumer complaint confidential from the public.
If you need assistance in completing the form or have questions, you can contact the Division’s Consumer Services Section .
Public Records Requests
If your complaint becomes part of a public records request,
the Nevada Division of Insurance will ensure that all personally identifiable
information is redacted before releasing your records.
If your complaint is marked confidential and is included in
a public records request, the record will not be produced and will remain
confidential.
Records Retention for Consumer Complaints
Retain these records for three (3) calendar years from the
close or resolution of the case. Disposition: Destroy records securely.