ALL IN GOOD HEALTH.
4150 Technology Way, Suite 104 ● Carson City, NV 89706 ● (775) 684-4242 ● vitalrecords@health.nv.gov ● dpbh.nv.gov/vitalrecords
APPLICATION FOR A CORRECTION OF A RECORD
COURT ORDERED CHANGE ONLY
Complete all Sections and Boxes to ensure accuracy
Applicant’s Information
(Corrected Certificate will be mailed to this address.)
Applicant’s Name (First & Last) Applicant’s Telephone Number
Applicant’s Address City State ZIP
Applicant’s Relationship to Person of Record Applicant’s Email Address Reason for Correction
Type of Certificate
(Select all that apply.)
Birth Certificate Correction Death Certificate Correction Fetal Death Certificate Correction
Fee Information
$45.00 per Person of Record and includes the correction and one certified copy.
$25.00 for each additional copy.
We accept checks, money orders, or cashier checks. Please do NOT send cash.
Please make payable to the Office of Vital Records.
Please Note:
Our office will only accept a CERTIFIED copy of a court order to process your request.
Current Information on the Person of Record
(This information is used to locate the Person on the Certificate’s record)
Person of Record’s First Name Middle Name Last Name
Date of Birth or Date of Death County of Birth or County of Death State of Birth
Mother/Parent 1’s First Name Mother/Parent 1’s Last Name Prior to First Marriage Mother/Parent 1’s Date of Birth
Father/Parent 2’s First Name Father/Parent 2’s Last Name Prior to First Marriage Father/Parent 2’s Date of Birth
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
RECEIPT # Date
Amending or Correcting
A Birth or Death Certificate
Per Nevada Administrative Code 440.023 & 440.030
Requirements for Documents:
• The Full name of the child/person listed on the original birth certificate and the full name of
the child/person listed after the name change be listed on both the Certified Court Order.
• The Full name of the child/person on the original birth certificate must be listed so that the
Office of Vital Records can find the original birth certificate to apply the correction.
• We cannot accept any documentation that has white out, corrections, erasures or cross-
outs on the certified court order. If any of these occur on the submitted certified court
order it must be re-done and re-certified.
• Only those listed on the certificate can submit a correction.
Where do I send the certified copy of the name change, copy of identification and the fee?
Office of Vital Records and Statistics
Attn: Corrections
4150 Technology Way, Suite 104
Carson City, Nevada 89706
Who do I make the fee payable to?
Office of Vital Records and Statistics
How long does this process take?
Please allow up to 4-6 weeks to process your request. For any questions, please contact
us at (775) 684-4242 or email us at ovrpac@health.nv.gov. Please provide the name
of the applicant, the person of record, and applicant’s phone number