skip to main content
Legal Services
Legal Clinic & Lawyer Referral
Legal Clinic & Lawyer Referral
The Los Angeles LGBT Center provides free and confidential legal consultations with experienced volunteer attorneys.
Message Us to Get Started
We Have a Wide Range of Legal Expertise, Including:
Bankruptcy
Business Law
Civil Rights
Consumer Law & Protection
Criminal Law
Education
Employment Law
General Civil
Government Benefits
Housing and Landlord/Tenant
Personal Injury
Immigration
Family Law
We also offer a Lawyer Referral Service. If you can&#039;t afford to pay for an attorney, our State Bar-certified Lawyer Referral Service can provide you with a consultation and direct representation. There is a $25 fee to access this service.
How Do I Get Started?
For all clients, we start our process with telephone intakes, and then proceed (if necessary) to telephone or video consultations. In-person appointments will be limited, but we prioritize these appointments for clients who do not have ongoing access to the phone/internet, and/or clients who need to receive legal documents.
If you&#8217;d like to make an appointment, please call us or send an email. Para comenzar, llame o envíe un correo electrónico. Please leave a message stating your full name, phone number, and a brief description of how we can help. When returning calls, please note our number may appear as blocked or private; all legal services are confidential.
Call Now
Legal Services Are Available At
Mi Centro
Mental Health &#038; Psychiatry Services, Legal Services, HIV Testing, Support Groups, Immigrant Legal Services
Mi Centro, in Boyle Heights, was formed through a community partnership of Los Angeles LGBT Center and Latino Equality Alliance.
553 S. Clarence St., Los Angeles, CA 90033
323-993-8944
Trans Wellness Center
Gender Affirming Care, Legal Services, Primary Care, Transgender Services, Employment Assistance, Therapy, Group Therapy
The Trans Wellness Center (TWC) provides comprehensive resources and services for transgender and nonbinary people under one roof.
3055 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 360, Los Angeles, CA 90010
323-993-2900
The Village at Ed Gould Plaza
Support Groups, Legal Services, Trans* Lounge, Youth Services
“The Village” is comprised of program space, offices, an outdoor courtyard, and our Cultural Arts galleries and theatres.
1125 N. McCadden Pl., Los Angeles, CA 90038
323-860-7309
Center South
Primary Care, Transgender Services, HIV Testing, STI Testing and Treatment, Therapy, Support Groups, Substance Use and Recovery Services, Insurance Plans
Our location in South LA offers primary care, mental health, sexual health, trans health, and general services—plus support groups to bond in community.
2313 W. MLK Jr. Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90008
323-860-3799
You May Be Interested In
Transgender Services
Medical Services
Action Name