Skip to content
Resource Center Health
Become a Patient
For most of its 40+ year history, Resource Center has provided LGBTQIA+ affirming healthcare services from its Community Center on Cedar Springs, Nelson-Tebedo and the Harold Simmons Foundation Health Campus at Reagan and Brown streets. Now Resource Center Health is your one-stop destination for compassionate, inclusive care tailored to your needs.
LGBTQ Health and Nelson-Tebedo Sexual Health Clinic are now open in one location – Resource Center Health!
New Location:
2603 Inwood Road @ Sadler Circle
Dallas, TX 75235
Request an Appointment
Every gift to the Our Health, Our Community campaign will bring us closer to a healthier, more equitable future for the North Texas LGBTQIA+ community. Support today !
Resource Center Health offers a wide range of services for individuals 18 and older all under one roof, including:
PrEP Care Program
Primary Healthcare (15+)
Mental Healthcare
HRT (18+)
HIV Services
STI/STD testing, prevention and treatment
Health Insurance Assistance
Free Condoms
SexyHealth Mobile Testing
Nutrition services and food pantry
Lab Work
Vaccinations
Case Management
Medical Case Management
Telehealth
Pharmacy
Resource Center Health plays a key role in preventing disease, improving health and enhancing quality of life in the LGBTQIA+ and HIV/AIDS communities. The Center&#8217;s staff are healthcare experts and take pride in offering a stigma-free place for care.
MAP:
2603 Inwood Rd
@ Sadler Cir.
Dallas, TX 75235
In addition to combining services into one building, Resource Center Health is adjacent to public transportation, has plenty of parking, and is within walking distance of the Community Center and Oak Lawn Place.
2603 Inwood Rd
@ Sadler Cir.
Dallas, TX 75235
Parking lot behind building.
Parking entrance on Sadler Cir.
214.528.2336
LGBTQ Health and Nelson-Tebedo Sexual Health Clinic have relocated to 2603 Inwood Rd., between Denton Dr. and Maple Ave, and conveniently near DART’s Inwood/Love Field station.
HOURS:
HIV/STI Prevention Services, Primary Care, Testing & Treatment:
Monday — Friday: 9 a.m. &#8211; 5 p.m.
Ryan White Food Pantry at Resource Center Health
Mon 9am-6pm
Tue-Thur 9am-2:30pm
Nutrition Services Donations at Resource Center Health
Mon 8:30am-5:30pm
Tues-Thur 8:30am-3pm
Ryan White Client Services at Resource Center Health
Mon 9am-6pm
Tue-Fri 9am-5pm
214.521.5124
*Based on eligibility through the Ryan White Treatment Extension Act and other funding sources.
Walk-ins are welcome; however, please note that we may not be able to accommodate walk-in clients during times when the schedule is fully booked. To ensure prompt service, we recommend scheduling an appointment in advance.
For HIV/STI Tests
Questions? Call 214.393.3700
For PrEP/PEP
Questions? Call 214.540.4469
For HRT (18+)
Questions? Call 214.540.4499
Health Services
Services Overview
Resource Center is dedicated to helping you stay healthy. Whether you need sexual, primary, preventative, gender-affirming, HIV or mental health care, you’ll find programs and services at Resource Center. We are here to support the LGBTQIA+ community, allies and all people affected by HIV. Our low-cost offerings include these health and wellness services.
PrEP/PEP Prescriptions​
Have you heard about PrEP/PEP, the HIV prevention options that work to prevent the virus from taking hold?
PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) and PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) can greatly reduce the risk of getting HIV and are available from Resource Center.
Learn More
Primary Healthcare
Everybody needs regular check-ups and a doctor to visit when sick. That’s why Resource Center invites you to choose us as your primary care provider. We offer HRT (18+). We’re here to help you be your most authentic and healthy self.
Learn More
Mental Healthcare
If you’re looking for a safe place and an affirming approach, come to Resource Center. We provide cost-effective mental health and substance abuse services to everybody, with expertise in issues that affect the LGBTQIA+ community.
Learn More
HRT (18+)
We offer a safe place for transgender, nonbinary and gender non-conforming people to receive gender-affirming services, including Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT), sexual, primary, and mental healthcare. Plus, our family and community groups offer friendship, skill-building and other supportive services.
Learn More
HIV Support
Are you living with HIV or AIDS? If so, you can count on us for treatment, case management, nutrition programs, health insurance premium assistance, dental care and more. Just ask—we’re here to help.
Learn More
HIV Testing
We know that sexual health is part of living a full life. That’s why we offer HIV testing and treatment for everybody, including the LGBTQIA+ community.
Learn More
happy thanksgiving.
All resource Center locations
closed thursday & friday,
Nov. 23 &24.