Skip to Main Content
Name Changes in Texas
Information about legally changing one's name in the state of Texas.
Search this Guide
Search
View all pages in this guide
General Information
Adoption
Adults
Children
Divorce
Marriage
Naturalization
Updating Your Documents
Legal Forms
Find More Information
Note The library cannot tell you what the law means for your situation.
Note A name change does not automatically update your IDs and other records. You must update each document individually.
See the page on Updating Your Documents after a Name Change .
Changing Your Name with a Court Order
Texas residents can apply for a name change under Texas Family Code Chapter 45 . This chapter establishes the formal process to change an adult's legal name through the courts.
For applicants with certain types of criminal history, additional requirements will apply. See Subsections 45.103 (b) and (c) for more information.
Texas Law
Texas Family Code, Chapter 45, Subchapter B This link opens in a new window
Subchapter B of chapter 45 governs name changes for adults.
The court may issue an order changing the petitioner's legal name "if the change is in the interest or to the benefit of the petitioner and in the interest of the public." This law is in Subsection 45.103 (a).
Filing a Petition
The process starts by filing a petition to change your legal name. This is usually done in person or online through the district clerk's office in the county where the applicant lives. The exact process will vary from court to court, but common steps include:
filing a petition and other required forms;
submitting a fingerprint card and supporting documents;
paying an application fee or filing an inability-to-pay form; and
attending a virtual or an in-person court hearing (in some counties).
See the Forms section for a sample name change petition form. If you have questions about the filing process, contact your district clerk's office .
Fingerprints
You will need two fingerprint cards for the name change process:
one to attach to your petition;
one to send to the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) after you file the petition with the court.
DPS requires a stamped copy of your filed petition, which you can request from the court. They will conduct a background check, process your fingerprints, and send the results to the court.
The guide from the DPS has detailed instructions including:
where to get your fingerprints taken;
where to send your fingerprints;
applicable fees; and
required documents and information.
Different courts may have different requirements, so you may want to ask the district clerk for more information.
Submission of fingerprint cards to DPS/FBI for adult legal name change (Department of Public Safety) This link opens in a new window
The Texas Family Code, Section 45.102, requires that each petition include a legible and complete set of the adult petitioner's fingerprints on a fingerprint card format acceptable to the Department of Public Safety (DPS) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
Documents to Prove Identity for Fingerprinting (Department of Public Safety) This link opens in a new window
The Department of Public Safety (DPS) has created a list of acceptable documents applicants must provide to the enrollment officer when attending a fingerprinting appointment with Identogo.
Understanding the Law
The following articles explain the law and the name change process in more detail.
Name Change (TexasLawHelp.org) This link opens in a new window
Name-change basics for both children and adults.
I want to change my name: Common questions and research tips (TexasLawHelp.org) This link opens in a new window
FAQs and instructions for changing the name of an adult.
Name Changes in Texas (Texas Young Lawyers Association) This link opens in a new window
PDF booklet about the process for changing one's name through Texas courts.
Name Changes and Criminal History (TexasLawHelp.org) This link opens in a new window
Learn about changing your name in Texas when you have a criminal history.
Forms
Online Forms
View all forms on the eFileTexas.gov website This link opens in a new window
Create, print, and file completed forms for an adult name change. Select FAMILY CASES from the list to get started.
I want to change my name: Instructions and forms (TexasLawHelp.org) This link opens in a new window
Step-by-step instructions and forms for adult name changes.
E-Books
Texas residents can access e-books with a free library account .
Texas family law practice and procedure
See Volume 5, Objective Z, Task Z1: Changing Name of Adult. This is a popular title and is not always available for checkout. Contact the library if you encounter difficulties accessing it.
Books
Available when you visit the library in person .
O'Connor's Texas family law forms [print book]
Call Number: KFT 505 W55
See Chapter 1-F, Section 3: Adult's name change.
Note The library cannot tell you what the law means for your situation.
<< Previous: Adoption
Next: Children >>
URL: https://guides.sll.texas.gov/name-changes
Print Page
Librarian Login
Report a problem
Subjects: Family Law
Marriage & Divorce
Tags: gender change
gender marker
marriage
married name
name change
vital statistics