Skip to main content
Close Menu
Rulemaking Docket
BMV
Resources
Legal Resources
Rulemaking Docket
Current Rulemaking Docket
Rule Name Rule Description Regulatory Analysis OMB & SBA Approval Notices of Public Comment and Hearing Economic Impact Statement Small Business Ombudsman Comments and Responses Public Comments and Response Remote Hearing Info and Link Anticipated Timeline Other Information
LSA #25-321 Credential Documentation Requirements View Analysis View Approval Letter View Notice of Public Comment
View Hearing Notice
View Notice of Second Public Comment Period
View Notice of Second Public Hearing
View the EIS View Summary of Comments and Responses
View Summary of Comments/Responses
(2nd Hearing)
View Hearing
View Second Hearing
View Timeline
Rule Readoption
Rule Name Rule Description Legislative Notice Readoption Review Notice of Public Comment Period
LSA #24-620
Readoption of Expiring Rules
View the Notice View the Review View Notice
Comment on a Proposed Rule
Comments on a proposed rule are accepted via mail at:
BMV Legal
Indiana Government Center North
100 North Senate Avenue
Room N404
Indianapolis, IN 46204
- OR -
Via email at: BMVLegal@bmv.in.gov .
Public comments are also accepted at the public hearing as required by Ind. Code § 4-22-2-26.
The comment period for a proposed rule will close at midnight on the date of the final public hearing unless specifically noted in the rule docket above.
A request to receive a copy of submitted comments, the BMV's response to comments, or any other written information associated with a proposed rule may be sent here .
Comments, the BMV's response to comments, and any other written information may be inspected at the office of the BMV, Legal Department, Indiana Government Center North, 100 North Senate Avenue, Room N404, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Indiana Economic Development Corporation, Indiana Office of Small Business and Entrepreneurship Rule Comments
In accordance with Ind. Code § 4-22-2.1-6, comments from the Indiana Economic Development Corporation are made available with respect to the following:
No rules at this time require EDC comment.
*These comments are also available for inspection and copying at the offices of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, Indiana Government Center North, 100 North Senate Avenue, Room N404, Indianapolis, Indiana. The comments are also made available at the public hearings.
Bureau of Motor Vehicles
Online Services
Create a myBMV Account
View your vehicle title(s)
View your Driving Record
Request a replacement driver's license
More IN.gov Online Services
IN.gov Subscriber Center
FAQs
When does the BMV require proof of insurance from drivers?
What should I do with a license plate I am no longer using?
When can I start driving in the car with my parents?
Is driver education required to get a license?
If my child completes an online driver education class, and then completes the 50 hours of driving to be documented on the driving log, can they get a license at 16 years and 90 days?
Will I have to pay extra if I don't renew my plates on time?
More FAQs
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Email