skip to content
home
accessibility
FAQ
feedback
sitemap
login
x
Quick Search:
Bill Number
Bill Keyword
Home
Bill Information
California Law
Publications
Other Resources
My Subscriptions
My Favorites
Bill Information
>>
Bill Search
>>
Text
Bill Text
Bill Information
PDF2
Bill PDF
| Add To My Favorites | Version: 09/29/22 - Chaptered
08/29/22 - Enrolled
08/18/22 - Amended Assembly
06/23/22 - Amended Assembly
05/31/22 - Amended Assembly
05/02/22 - Amended Senate
04/19/22 - Amended Senate
03/01/22 - Amended Senate
02/03/22 - Introduced
SB-923 Gender-affirming care. (2021-2022)
Text
>>
Votes
>>
History
>>
Bill Analysis
>>
Today's Law As Amended
>>
Compare Versions
>>
Status
>>
Comments To Author
>>
Add To My Favorites
>>
SHARE THIS:
Date Published: 10/03/2022 09:00 PM
Bill Start
Senate Bill
No. 923
CHAPTER 822
An act to amend Section 2190.1 of the Business and Professions Code, to add Sections 1367.043 and 1367.28 to, and to add Division 119.5 (commencing with Section 150950) to, the Health and Safety Code, to add Sections 10133.13 and 10133.14 to the Insurance Code, and to add Section 14197.09 to the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to gender-affirming care.
[
Approved by
Governor
September 29, 2022.
Filed with
Secretary of State
September 29, 2022.
]
LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST
SB 923, Wiener.
Gender-affirming care.
(1) Existing law establishes the Transgender Wellness and Equity Fund, administered by the Office of Health Equity within the State Department of Public Health, for the purpose of grant funding focused on coordinating trans-inclusive health care for individuals who identify as transgender, gender nonconforming, or intersex.
Existing law establishes the Medi-Cal program, which is administered by the State Department of Health Care Services and under which qualified low-income individuals receive health care services through various health care delivery systems, including managed care. The Medi-Cal program is, in part, governed and funded by federal Medicaid program provisions.
Existing law establishes the California Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE program) to
provide community-based, long-term care services for older individuals under the Medi-Cal State Plan. Under existing law, certain entities that exclusively serve PACE participants are exempt from licensure by the State Department of Public Health and are subject to oversight and regulation as PACE organizations by the State Department of Health Care Services.
Existing law, the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, provides for the licensure and regulation of health care service plans by the Department of Managed Health Care and makes a willful violation of the act a crime. Existing law provides for the regulation of health insurers by the Department of Insurance.
This bill would require a Medi-Cal managed care plan, a PACE organization, a health care service plan, or a health insurer, and delegated entities,
as specified, to require its staff to complete evidence-based cultural competency training for the purpose of providing trans-inclusive health care, as defined, for individuals who identify as transgender, gender diverse, or intersex (TGI). The bill would specify the required components of the training and would make use of any training curricula subject to approval by the respective departments. The bill would require an individual to complete a refresher course if a complaint has been filed, and a decision has been made in favor of the complainant, against that individual for not providing trans-inclusive health care, or on a more frequent basis if deemed necessary.
The bill would require the respective departments to develop and implement procedures, and would authorize them to impose sanctions, to ensure compliance with the above-described provisions. The bill would also require the departments to track and monitor complaints received by the
departments related to trans-inclusive health care and to publicly report this data, as specified.
Because a violation of these new requirements by a health care service plan would be a crime, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
The bill would require the respective departments to implement these provisions without taking any regulatory action, and would require them to adopt regulations by July 1, 2027 providing semiannual status reports to the Legislature until regulations are adopted.
(2) Existing law, the Medical Practice Act, provides for the licensure and regulation of physicians and surgeons by the Medical Board of California. Under the act,
a physician and surgeon is required to demonstrate satisfaction of continuing education requirements, including cultural and linguistic competency in the practice of medicine, as specified.
This bill would expand cultural competency training to include, as appropriate, information and evidence-based cultural competency training pertinent to the treatment of, and provision of care to, individuals who identify as queer, questioning, asexual, or gender diverse, and the processes specific to those seeking gender-affirming care services. The bill would provide specific components, including health inequities within the TGI community, that would be suitable for evidence-based cultural competency training pursuant to these provisions.
(3) Existing law requires a health care service plan and specified health insurers to publish and maintain a provider directory or directories and to make them publicly
available on the plan’s or insurer’s internet website. Existing law requires a full-service health care service plan and an insurer to include the area of specialty and other certain information in the provider directory or directories.
This bill would require a full service health care service plan, an insurer, and a Medi-Cal managed care plan, no later than March 1, 2025, to include information, within or accessible from the plan’s or insurer’s provider directory, that identifies which of a plan’s or insurer’s in-network providers have affirmed that they offer and have provided gender-affirming services, as specified. Because a violation of these new requirements would be a crime under the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, the bill would
impose a state-mandated local program.
(4) Existing law establishes the California Health and Human Services Agency, which includes the State Department of Public Health, among other state departments charged with the administration of health, social, and other human services.
This bill would require, no later than March 1, 2023, the California Health and Human Services Agency to convene a working group that includes representatives from various departments, TGI-serving organizations, residents who identify as TGI, and health care providers to develop a quality standard for patient experience in order to measure cultural competency related to the TGI community and recommend training curriculum to provide trans-inclusive health care, as specified.
(5) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local
agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
Digest Key
Vote:
MAJORITY
Appropriation:
NO
Fiscal Committee:
YES
Local Program:
YES
Bill Text
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
SECTION 1.
Section 2190.1 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
2190.1.
(a) The continuing medical education standards of Section 2190 may be met by educational activities that meet the standards of the board and that serve to maintain, develop, or increase the knowledge, skills, and professional performance that a physician and surgeon uses to provide care, or to improve the quality of care provided to patients. These may include, but are not limited to, educational activities that meet any of the following criteria:
(1) Have a scientific or clinical content with a direct bearing on the quality or cost-effective provision of patient care, community or public health, or preventive medicine.
(2) Concern quality assurance or improvement, risk management, health facility standards, or the legal aspects of clinical medicine.
(3) Concern bioethics or professional ethics.
(4) Are designed to improve the physician-patient relationship.
(b) (1) On and after July 1, 2006, all continuing medical education courses shall contain curriculum that includes cultural and linguistic competency in the practice of medicine.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), a continuing medical education course dedicated solely to research or other issues that does not include a direct patient care component or a course offered by a
continuing medical education provider that is not located in this state is not required to contain curriculum that includes cultural and linguistic competency in the practice of
medicine.
(3) Associations that accredit continuing medical education courses shall develop standards before July 1, 2006, for compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1). The associations may update these standards, as needed, in conjunction with an advisory group that has expertise in cultural and linguistic competency issues.
(4) A physician and surgeon who completes a continuing education course meeting the standards developed pursuant to paragraph (3) satisfies the continuing education requirement for cultural and linguistic competency.
(c) In order to satisfy the requirements of subdivision (b), continuing medical education courses shall address at least one or a combination of the
following:
(1) Cultural competency. For the purposes of this section, “cultural competency” means a set of integrated attitudes, knowledge, and skills that enables a health care professional or organization to care effectively for patients from diverse cultures, groups, and communities. At a minimum, cultural competency is recommended to include the following:
(A) Applying linguistic skills to communicate effectively with the target population.
(B) Utilizing cultural information to establish therapeutic relationships.
(C) Eliciting and incorporating pertinent cultural data in diagnosis and treatment.
(D) (i) Understanding and applying culturally, ethnically, and sociologically inclusive data to the process of clinical care, including, as appropriate, information and evidence-based cultural competency training pertinent to the treatment of, and provision of care to, individuals who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, asexual, intersex, or gender diverse. This includes processes specific to those seeking gender-affirming care services.
(ii) An evidence-based cultural competency training implemented pursuant to clause (i) may include all of the following:
(I) Information about the effects, including, but not limited to, ongoing personal effects of historical and contemporary exclusion and oppression of transgender,
gender diverse, or intersex (TGI) communities.
(II) Information about communicating more effectively across gender identities, including TGI-inclusive terminology, using people’s correct names and pronouns, even when they are not reflected in records or legal documents, avoiding language, whether verbal or nonverbal, that demeans, ridicules, or condemns TGI individuals, and avoiding making assumptions about gender identity by using gender-neutral language and avoiding language that presumes all individuals are heterosexual, cisgender, or gender conforming, or nonintersex.
(III) Discussion on health inequities within the TGI community, including family and community acceptance.
(IV) Perspectives of diverse, local
constituency groups and TGI-serving organizations including, but not limited to, the California Transgender Advisory Council.
(V) Recognition of the difference between personal values and professional responsibilities with regard to serving TGI people.
(VI) Recommendations on administrative changes to make health care facilities more inclusive.
(2) Linguistic competency. For the purposes of this section, “linguistic competency” means the ability of a physician and surgeon to provide patients who do not speak English or who have limited ability to speak English, direct communication in the patient’s primary language.
(3) A review and explanation of relevant
federal and state laws and regulations regarding linguistic access, including, but not limited to, the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1981 et seq.), Executive Order 13166 of August 11, 2000, of the President of the United States, and the Dymally-Alatorre Bilingual Services Act (Chapter 17.5 (commencing with Section 7290) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code).
(d) (1) On and after January 1, 2022, all continuing medical education courses shall contain curriculum that includes the understanding of implicit bias.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), a continuing medical education course dedicated solely to research or other issues that does not include a direct patient care component or a course offered by a
continuing medical education provider that is not located in this state is not required to contain curriculum that includes implicit bias in the practice of medicine.
(3) Associations that accredit continuing medical education courses shall develop standards before January 1, 2022, for compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1). The associations may update these standards, as needed, in conjunction with an advisory group established by the association that has expertise in the understanding of implicit bias.
(e) In order to satisfy the requirements of subdivision (d), continuing medical education courses shall address at least one or a combination of the following:
(1) Examples of how implicit bias affects perceptions
and treatment decisions of physicians and surgeons, leading to disparities in health outcomes.
(2) Strategies to address how unintended biases in decisionmaking may contribute to health care disparities by shaping behavior and producing differences in medical treatment along lines of race, ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, socioeconomic status, or other characteristics.
(f) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), educational activities that are not directed toward the practice of medicine, or are directed primarily toward the business aspects of medical practice, including, but not limited to, medical office management, billing and coding, and marketing shall not be deemed to meet the continuing medical education standards for licensed physicians and
surgeons.
(g) Educational activities that meet the content standards set forth in this section and are accredited by the California Medical Association or the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education may be deemed by the Division of Licensing to meet its continuing medical education standards.
(h) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “TGI” means transgender, gender diverse, or intersex.
(2) “TGI-serving organization” has the same meaning as set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 150900 of the Health and Safety Code.
SEC. 2.
Section 1367.043 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:
1367.043.
(a) (1) Within six months after the department issues guidance pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (e), and no later than March 1, 2025, a health care service plan that issues, sells, renews, or offers health care service plan contracts for health care coverage in this state, including a grandfathered health plan, but not including specialized health care service plan contracts that provide only dental or vision services, shall require all of its health care service plan staff who are in direct contact with
enrollees in the delivery of care or enrollee services to complete evidence-based cultural competency training for the purpose of providing trans-inclusive health care for individuals who identify as transgender, gender diverse, or intersex (TGI).
(2) An evidence-based cultural competency training implemented pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include all of the following:
(A) Information about the effects, including, but not limited to, ongoing personal effects, of historical and contemporary exclusion and oppression of TGI communities.
(B) Information about communicating more effectively across gender identities, including TGI-inclusive terminology, using people’s correct names and pronouns, even when they are not reflected
in records or legal documents; avoiding language, whether verbal or nonverbal, that demeans, ridicules, or condemns TGI individuals; and avoiding making assumptions about gender identity by using gender-neutral language and avoiding language that presumes all individuals are heterosexual, cisgender or gender conforming, or nonintersex.
(C) Discussion on health inequities within the TGI community, including family and community acceptance.
(D) Perspectives of diverse, local constituency groups and TGI-serving organizations, including, but not limited to, the California Transgender Advisory Council.
(E) Recognition of the difference between personal values and professional responsibilities with regard to serving TGI
people.
(F) Facilitation by TGI-serving organizations.
(3) Use of any training curricula for purposes of implementing paragraph (1) shall be subject to approval by the department, following stakeholder engagement with local constituency groups and TGI-serving organizations, including, but not limited to, the California Transgender Advisory Council.
(4) After first-time completion of the evidence-based cultural
competency training, in the form of initial basic training, an individual described in paragraph (1) shall complete a refresher course if a complaint has been filed with the health care service plan or the department pursuant to Section 1368, and a decision has been made in favor of the complainant, against that individual for not providing trans-inclusive health care, or on a more frequent basis if deemed necessary by the health care service plan or the department for purposes of providing trans-inclusive health care.
(b) The director shall review individual case complaints received by the department pursuant to Section 1368, alleging discrimination on the basis of gender identity and refer those complaints to the Civil Rights Department. For improper denials, delays, or modifications of trans-inclusive care, the department
shall review the complaints received by the department to determine whether any enforcement actions, including sanctions pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 1386) or Article 8 (commencing with Section 1390), may be appropriate.
(c) The department shall track and monitor complaints received by the department, pursuant to Section 1368, related to trans-inclusive health care and publicly report this data with other complaint data in its annual report, on its website, or with other public reports containing complaint data.
(d) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “TGI” means transgender, gender diverse or intersex.
(2) “TGI-serving organization” has the same meaning as set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 150900.
(3) “Trans-inclusive health care” means comprehensive health care that is consistent with the standards of care for individuals who identify as TGI, honors an individual’s personal bodily autonomy, does not make assumptions about an individual’s gender, accepts gender fluidity and nontraditional gender presentation, and treats everyone with compassion, understanding, and respect.
(e) (1) Within six months of development of the quality standard and recommendations for curriculum pursuant to Section 150950 and no later than September 1, 2024, the department shall develop guidance and procedures for compliance with this section. In developing guidance pursuant to this subdivision, the department shall consider the recommendations made by the working group pursuant to Section 150950.
(2) Notwithstanding
Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, the department, without taking any further regulatory action, shall implement, interpret, or make specific this section by means of plan letters, procedures, or similar instructions, until regulations are adopted.
(3) The department shall adopt regulations for purposes of this section by
July 1,
2027, in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. The department shall provide a status report to the Legislature on a semiannual basis, in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code, until regulations are adopted. In developing the regulations, the department shall consider the recommendations made by the working group pursuant to Section 150950.
(f) If a health care service plan delegates duties under this section to a contracted entity, including, but not limited to, a medical group or independent practice association, then the delegated entity shall comply with this
section.
(g) The director may take enforcement action including, but not limited to, imposing penalties, pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 1386) or Article 8 (commencing with Section 1390), for noncompliance with the requirements of this section or regulations promulgated thereunder.
SEC. 3.
Section 1367.28 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:
1367.28.
Within six months after the department issues guidance pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of Section 1367.043, and no later than March 1, 2025, a full service health care service plan shall include information within or accessible from the plan’s provider directory, and accessible through the plan’s call center, that identifies which of a plan’s in-network providers have affirmed that they offer and have provided gender-affirming services, including, but not limited to, feminizing mammoplasty, male chest reconstruction, mastectomy, gender-confirming
facial surgery, hysterectomy, oophorectomy, penectomy, orchiectomy, feminizing genitoplasty, metoidioplasty, phalloplasty, scrotoplasty, voice masculinization or feminization, hormone therapy related to gender dysphoria or intersex conditions, gender-affirming gynecological care, or voice therapy related to gender dysphoria or intersex conditions.
This information shall be updated when an in-network provider requests its inclusion or exclusion as a provider that offers and provides gender-affirming services. Nothing in this act alters any business establishment’s obligation to provide full and equal services to customers or patients regardless of their sex and other protected characteristics, pursuant to the Unruh Civil Rights Act (Section 51 of the Civil Code) and other applicable law.
SEC. 4.
Division 119.5 (commencing with Section 150950) is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:
DIVISION 119.5. Transgender, Gender Diverse, or Intersex Health Care Quality Standards
150950.
(a) No later than March 1, 2023, the California Health and Human Services Agency shall convene a working group of representatives from at least three TGI-serving organizations, at least three individual California residents who identify as TGI, health care providers, and one appointee representing each of the following state agencies:
(1) The Department of Managed Health Care.
(2) The Department of Insurance.
(3) The State Department of Health Care Services.
(4) The California Health
Benefit Exchange.
(5) CalPERS.
(6) The State Department of Public Health.
(b) The working group shall be charged with developing a quality standard for patient experience to measure cultural competency related to the TGI community and recommend training curriculum to provide trans-inclusive health care. This shall be done with input from health care providers, experts on quality measurement, additional stakeholders, and other entities the agency deems necessary. The working group shall conduct at least four listening sessions across the state with patients from the TGI community.
The quality standard and recommendations for curriculum shall be developed no later than March 1, 2024.
(c) The agency may contract with consultants to assist the working group with the implementation and administration of its duties under this section. Contracts entered into pursuant to the authority in this subdivision shall be exempt from Part 2 (commencing with Section 10100) of Division 2 of the Public Contract Code, Section 19130 of the Government Code, and Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 14825) of Part 5.5 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code and shall be exempt from the review or approval of any division of the Department of General Services.
(d) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “TGI” means transgender, gender diverse, or intersex.
(2) “TGI-serving organization” has the same meaning as set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 150900.
SEC. 5.
Section 10133.13 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
10133.13.
(a) (1) Within six months after the department issues guidance pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (d), and no later than March 1, 2025, a health insurer that issues, sells, renews, or offers health insurance policies for health care coverage in this state, including a grandfathered health insurance policy, but not including specialized health insurance policies that provide only dental or vision services, shall require
all of its health insurer staff who are in direct contact with insureds in the delivery of care or insured services to complete evidence-based cultural competency training for the purpose of providing trans-inclusive health care for individuals who identify as transgender, gender diverse, or intersex (TGI).
(2) An evidence-based cultural competency training implemented pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include all of the following:
(A) Information about the effects, including, but not limited to, ongoing personal effects, of historical and contemporary exclusion and oppression of TGI communities.
(B) Information about communicating more effectively across gender identities, including TGI-inclusive terminology, using people’s
correct names and pronouns, even when they are not reflected in records or legal documents; avoiding language, whether verbal or nonverbal, that demeans, ridicules, or condemns TGI individuals; and avoiding making assumptions about gender identity by using gender-neutral language and avoiding language that presumes all individuals are heterosexual, cisgender or gender conforming, or nonintersex.
(C) Discussion on health inequities within the TGI community, including family and community acceptance.
(D) Perspectives of diverse, local constituency groups and TGI-serving organizations, including, but not limited to, the California Transgender Advisory Council.
(E) Recognition of the difference between personal values and professional
responsibilities with regard to serving TGI people.
(F) Facilitation by TGI-serving organizations.
(3) Use of any training curricula for purposes of implementing paragraph (1) shall be subject to approval by the department, following stakeholder engagement with local constituency groups and TGI-serving organizations, including, but not limited to, the California Transgender Advisory Council.
(4) After first-time completion of the evidence-based cultural
competency training, in the form of initial basic training, an individual described in paragraph (1) shall complete a refresher course if a complaint has been filed, and a decision has been made in favor of the complainant, against that individual for not providing trans-inclusive health care, or on a more frequent basis if deemed necessary by the health insurer or the department for purposes of providing trans-inclusive health care.
(b) (1) No later than September 1, 2024, the department shall develop and implement procedures, and may impose sanctions pursuant to any applicable
enforcement provisions, to ensure that a health insurer is compliant with the requirements described in subdivision (a).
(2) Within six months after the department issues guidance pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (d), the department shall track and monitor complaints received by the department related to trans-inclusive health care and publicly report this data with other complaint data on its website or with other public reports containing complaint data.
(c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “TGI” means transgender,
gender diverse, or intersex.
(2) “TGI-serving organization” has the same meaning as set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 150900 of the Health and Safety Code.
(3) “Trans-inclusive health care” means comprehensive health care that is consistent with the standards of care for individuals who identify as TGI, honors an individual’s personal bodily autonomy, does not make assumptions about an individual’s gender, accepts gender fluidity and nontraditional gender presentation, and treats everyone with compassion, understanding, and respect.
(d) (1) Within
six months of development of the quality standard and recommendations for curriculum pursuant to Section 150950 of the Health and Safety Code and no later than September 1, 2024, the department shall develop guidance and procedures for compliance with this section. In developing guidance pursuant to this subdivision, the department shall consider the recommendations made by the working group pursuant to Section 150950 of the Health and Safety Code.
(2) Notwithstanding Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, the department, without taking any further regulatory action, shall implement, interpret, or make specific this section by means of guidance
or similar instructions, until regulations are adopted.
(3) The department shall adopt regulations for purposes of this section by July 1, 2027, in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. The department shall provide a status report to the Legislature on a semiannual basis, in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government
Code, until regulations are adopted.
In developing the regulations, the department shall consider the recommendations made by the working group pursuant to Section 150950 of the Health and Safety Code.
(e) If a health insurer delegates duties under this section to a contracted entity, including, but not limited to, a medical group or independent practice association, then the entity to which those duties are delegated shall comply with this section.
(f) The commissioner may take enforcement action, including, but not limited to, imposing penalties for noncompliance with the requirements of this section or regulations promulgated thereunder. If the commissioner determines that a health insurer, or an entity contracted with the health insurer, has violated this section, the commissioner may,
after appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code), by order, assess a civil penalty not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each violation, or if a violation was willful, a civil penalty not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for each violation.
SEC. 6.
Section 10133.14 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
10133.14.
No later than March 1, 2025, a health insurer subject to Section 10133.13 shall include information within or accessible from the insurer’s provider directory, and accessible through the insurer’s call center, that identifies which of an insurer’s in-network providers have affirmed that they
offer and have provided gender-affirming services, including, but not limited to, feminizing mammoplasty, male chest reconstruction, mastectomy, gender-confirming facial surgery, hysterectomy, oophorectomy, penectomy, orchiectomy, feminizing genitoplasty, metoidioplasty, phalloplasty, scrotoplasty, voice masculinization or feminization, hormone therapy related to gender dysphoria or intersex conditions, gender-affirming gynecological care, or voice therapy related to gender dysphoria or intersex conditions.
This information shall be updated when an in-network provider requests its inclusion or exclusion as a provider that offers and provides gender-affirming services. Nothing in this act alters any business establishment’s obligation to provide full and equal services to customers or patients regardless of their sex and other protected characteristics, pursuant to the Unruh Civil Rights Act (Section 51 of the Civil Code) and other applicable law.
SEC. 7.
Section 14197.09 is added to the Welfare and Institutions Code, to read:
14197.09.
(a) (1) No later than 12 months after the working group develops its recommendations for curriculum pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 150950 of the Health and Safety Code, and no later than March 1, 2025, a Medi-Cal managed care plan shall require all of its subcontractors, downstream subcontractors, and all of its managed care plan staff who are in direct contact with beneficiaries in the delivery of care or beneficiary services to
complete evidence-based cultural competency training for the purpose of providing trans-inclusive health care for individuals who identify as transgender, gender diverse, or intersex (TGI).
(2) An evidence-based cultural competency training implemented pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include all of the following:
(A) Information about the effects, including, but not limited to, ongoing personal effects, of historical and contemporary exclusion and oppression of TGI communities.
(B) Information about communicating more effectively across gender identities, including TGI-inclusive terminology, using people’s correct names and pronouns, even when they are not reflected in records or legal documents; avoiding language,
whether verbal or nonverbal, that demeans, ridicules, or condemns TGI individuals; and avoiding making assumptions about gender identity by using gender-neutral language and avoiding language that presumes all individuals are heterosexual, cisgender or gender conforming, or nonintersex.
(C) Discussion on health inequities within the TGI community, including family and community acceptance.
(D) Perspectives of diverse, local constituency groups and TGI-serving organizations, including, but not limited to, the California Transgender Advisory Council.
(E) Recognition of the difference between personal values and professional responsibilities with regard to serving TGI people.
(F) Facilitation by TGI-serving organizations.
(3) Cultural competency training implemented by a Medi-Cal managed care plan that includes TGI components, as required by its managed care plan contract with the department, shall meet this requirement. This cultural competency training shall consider recommendations made by the working group pursuant to Section 150950 of the Health and Safety Code.
(4) Use of any training curricula for purposes of implementing paragraph
(1) shall be subject to approval by the department, following stakeholder engagement with local constituency groups and TGI-serving organizations, including, but not limited to, the California Transgender Advisory Council.
(5) After first-time completion of the evidence-based cultural competency training, in the form of initial basic training, an individual described in paragraph (1) shall complete a refresher course if a complaint has been filed, and a decision has been made in favor of the complainant, against that individual for not providing trans-inclusive health care, or on a more frequent
basis if deemed necessary by the Medi-Cal managed care plan or the department for purposes of providing trans-inclusive health care.
(b) (1) No later than 12 months after the working group develops its recommendations for curriculum pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 150950 of the Health and Safety Code, and no later than March 1, 2025, the department shall develop and implement procedures, and may impose sanctions pursuant to Section 14197.7, to ensure that a Medi-Cal managed care plan is compliant with the requirements described in subdivision (a).
(2) The department shall track and
monitor complaints received by the department related to trans-inclusive health care and publicly report this data with other complaint data on its website or with other public reports containing complaint data.
(c) No later than 12 months after the working group develops its recommendations for curriculum pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 150950 of the Health and Safety Code, and no later than March 1, 2025, a Medi-Cal managed care plan shall include information within or accessible from the plan’s provider directory, and accessible through the plan’s call center, that identifies which of
the Medi-Cal managed care plan’s in-network providers have affirmed that they offer and have provided gender-affirming services, including, but not limited to, feminizing mammoplasty, male chest reconstruction, mastectomy, gender-confirming facial surgery, hysterectomy, oophorectomy, penectomy, orchiectomy, feminizing genitoplasty, metoidioplasty, phalloplasty, scrotoplasty, voice masculinization or feminization, hormone therapy related to gender dysphoria or intersex conditions, gender-affirming gynecological care, or voice therapy related to gender dysphoria or intersex conditions.
This information shall be updated when an in-network provider requests its inclusion or exclusion as a provider that offers and provides gender-affirming services. Nothing in this act alters any business establishment’s obligation to provide full and equal services to customers or patients regardless of their sex and other protected characteristics, pursuant to the Unruh Civil Rights Act (Section 51 of the Civil Code) and other applicable law.
(d) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1) “Medi-Cal managed care plan” means an individual, organization, or entity that enters into a contract with the department to provide general health care services to enrolled Medi-Cal beneficiaries pursuant to any of the following:
(A) Article 2.7 (commencing with Section 14087.3), excluding dental managed care programs developed pursuant to Section 14087.46.
(B) Article 2.8 (commencing with Section 14087.5).
(C) Article 2.81 (commencing with Section 14087.96).
(D) Article 2.82 (commencing with Section 14087.98).
(E) Article 2.9 (commencing with Section 14088).
(F) Article 2.91 (commencing with Section
14089).
(G) Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 14200), excluding dental managed care plans.
(H) Chapter 8.9 (commencing with Section 14700).
(I) A county Drug Medi-Cal organized delivery system authorized under the California Medi-Cal 2020 Demonstration pursuant to Article 5.5 (commencing with Section 14184), the California Advancing and Innovating Medi-Cal Demonstration pursuant to Section 14184.401,
or a successor demonstration or waiver, as applicable.
(2) The requirements described in this section that are imposed on a “Medi-Cal managed care plan” also apply to a Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) organization operating pursuant to Chapter 8.75 (commencing with Section 14591). The sanctions described in subdivision (b) also apply to a PACE organization, which may be imposed by the department or the State Department of Public Health pursuant to Section 14592 or any other provisions applicable to PACE organizations.
(3) “TGI” means transgender, gender diverse, or intersex.
(4) “TGI-serving organization” has the same meaning as set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section
150900 of the Health and Safety Code.
(5) “Trans-inclusive health care” means comprehensive health care that is consistent with the standards of care for individuals who identify as TGI, honors an individual’s personal bodily autonomy, does not make assumptions about an individual’s gender, accepts gender fluidity and nontraditional gender presentation, and treats everyone with compassion, understanding, and respect.
(e) (1) Notwithstanding Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, the department, without taking any further regulatory action, shall implement, interpret, or make specific this section by means of all-county letters, plan letters, plan or provider bulletins, or similar instructions,
until regulations are adopted.
(2) The department shall adopt regulations for purposes of this section by July 1, 2027, in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code. The department shall provide a status report to the Legislature on a semiannual basis, in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code, until regulations are adopted.
SEC. 8.
No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.