Skip to main content
Back
Search
&times;
Error Enter a word or phrase to search
Wed, 11/29/2023 - 22:05
08/10/2026 - 12:08
Sexual Health Clinics
The Sexual Health and Wellness Clinics are now billing for clinical services. Bring a copy of your health insurance card and a photo ID. More information about the cost of clinic visits is below.
Billing Announcement
Baltimore City Health Department Sexual Health and Wellness Clinics will begin billing health insurance for clinical services in Spring 2024. Here’s what to know:
Patients will be asked to provide their health insurance information and identification when they register for an appointment.
Patients who do not want their insurance billed will have the option for self-pay on a sliding scale based on income.
Patients without insurance will be able receive services. We will not turn people away due to lack of insurance or ability to pay for services.
Please bring photo identification to clinic visits.
Sexual Health Clinics Overview
Getting yourself tested for sexually transmitted infections is the first step in taking responsibility for your sexual health and the health of your partners. Get a free test for HIV or other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) at one of our Sexual Health clinics.
The Bureau of Clinical Services operates two Sexual Health Clinics. These clinics provide confidential testing, diagnosis, and treatment for STIs, including chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomonas, non-gonococcal urethritis, syphilis, herpes simplex virus, genital warts (HPV), and HIV. They also provide testing, diagnosis, and treatment for yeast infections, bacterial vaginosis, and Hepatitis C. The clinics provide Ryan White primary care services for people living with HIV. We provide testing, treatment, and vaccination for Mpox.
Clinic Locations and Hours
Druid Sexual Health and Wellness Clinic 1501 W. Saratoga St.
Baltimore, MD 21223
(443) 984-3953
Hours of Operation
Tuesday and Thursday | 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM
**Last appointment at 4:30 pm
** Walk-ins are available
Eastern Sexual Health and Wellness Clinic 1200 E. Fayette St.
Baltimore, MD 21202
(410) 396-9410
Hours of Operation
Monday through Friday | 9:00 AM- 5:00 PM
**Last appointment at 4:30 pm
**Walk ins available
HIV/STD Prevention Program Administrative Office 1001 E. Fayette St.
Baltimore, MD 21202
(410) 396-4448
Metro Subway: Shot Tower
Clinical Services
Confidential Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) testing and treatment, including chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis
HIV testing, treatment, HIV primary care, and specialty services
HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) and Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) for the prevention of HIV
Testing for Mpox (formerly called Monkeypox)
Pap tests for cervical cancer screening
Testing and treatment for vaginal yeast infection and bacterial vaginosis
Pregnancy testing and referrals
Hepatitis C testing and treatment
Confidential partner notification services for syphilis and HIV
Substance use and mental health screenings and referrals
Referrals for primary care, dental and vision services
The Baltimore City Health Department Sexual Health and Wellness Clinics are a Ryan White clinic, with Ryan White services for individuals living with HIV.
** As of June 2024, the Sexual Health and Wellness Clinics are billing for clinical services. Billing for the clinic visit and for laboratory testing through LabCorp are two separate billing processes.
Appointments
Appointments are recommended . A limited number of walk-in services are available on a first-come, first served basis.
Please note the hours of the Family Planning and Adolescent and Reproductive Health Clinic at each location are different
Billing and Cost of Services
Please bring your photo identification card.
Please bring a copy of your insurance card to your clinic visit. Your insurance will be billed for your visit and laboratory testing through LabCorp. Patients on Medicaid or a Maryland Medicaid Managed Care Organization (MCO) should not have a co-pay for the clinic visit or laboratory tests approved by insurance.
Patients without insurance will be seen. Patients will be billed for the visit. We can reduce the cost to you if you provide us with your household size and income verification. You may still be billed for a portion of the cost of the visit and you may be responsible for costs of laboratory tests.
Patients who do not provide insurance information or choose to be ‘self-pay’ or pay out of pocket will be billed for their clinic visit and may be billed for laboratory testing. We can reduce the cost to you if you provide us with your household size and income verification.
The clinic visit is billed through the Baltimore City Health Department. Laboratory testing done through LabCorp is billed separately.
Laboratory testing for STI, including chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and HIV antibody done through the Baltimore City Health Department lab (blood draws) is free for all patients. There are no cost and no co-pay. Different policies apply to point of care testing done at the clinic visit.
Billing of laboratory testing through LabCorp Patients who have laboratory tests done through LabCorp are billed separately through LabCorp.
Patients must have their correct medical insurance information entered at the time of the clinic visit for their insurance to be billed by LabCorp.
Patients who do not have insurance and who fall under 200% of the Federal Poverty Limit will not be charged for laboratory tests through LabCorp. This can only be applied if household and income information is provided to the Sexual Health and Wellness Clinic at the time of the clinic appointment.
Looking for free STI and HIV testing at home?
The I Want The Kit website offers free, at-home STI testing kits to Maryland residents.
Back to top
Back to top