Skip to content
We fought back and WON!
QueerDoc was subpoenaed by the DOJ under the Trump administration. We surrendered nothing, and our care continues. Read more →
WELCOME TO QUEERDOC
QUEER & TRANS HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS IMPROVING TRANS LIVES EVERYDAY
What We do
EXPERT TRANS AND GENDER AFFIRMING MEDICAL CARE ONLINE
QUEER AND GENDER AFFIRMING TELEMEDICINE BY TRANS OR QUEER PROVIDERS
TELEMEDICINE SERVICES
Adult Gender Affirming Care
Virtual transgender medical care for folx 18 and older
LEARN MORE
Adolescent Gender Affirming Care
Virtual transgender medical care for folx under 18
LEARN MORE
welcome
telemedicine
adult care
adolescent care
A 'gender care' doctor is in the house
Queer and gender affirming healthcare services from folx with lived experience
Dr. Crystal Beal (they/themme) founded QueerDoc to cure trans healthcare discrimination and raise the bar in queer and gender affirming healthcare. Through QueerDoc, Dr. Beal and their hand-picked team offer direct clinical services via telemedicine to individuals. Consulting and training programs for healthcare companies, clinics, clinic systems, organizations, and other providers are available through QueerCME . Ultimately, Crystal and their team at QueerDoc inform, provide, and empower the trans and gender diverse community with the healthcare they need and deserve.
Through QueerDoc individuals can access gender affirming hormones like testosterone, estradiol, progesterone and other medications such as bicalutamide, raloxifene (SERMs), and puberty blockers. Organizations can step up their trans and LGBTQ+ diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) with QueerCME. Healthcare providers can expand their gender affirming knowledge base and improve their skills in serving the their transgender and gender diverse patients at QueerCME.
What we do
Expert transgender medicine for all ages online. Access gender affirming care from an entirely queer and trans team through telehealth. QueerDoc leads the nation in combining community wisdom with evidence-based medicine to advance the field of trans healthcare and provide individualized care to help you achieve you! Our team is experienced supporting care with testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, bicalutamide, SERMs, puberty blockers, and more.
How It Works
Start with a free 15 minute session to learn all about our clinic
Access online medical visits with queer and gender diverse doctors from the comfort of your own home. QueerDoc offers an online doctor’s office for all of your trans healthcare needs including gender affirming medical care like testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, bicalutamide, SERMs, and puberty blockers.
LEARN MORE
Where We Are
Understand our service area for virtual gender affirming care
While all services are virtual, state and federal laws limit telehealth services. You must be in a state of service at the time of your visit.
LEARN MORE
All About the Money
We offer sliding scale payment for everyone
QueerDoc offers sliding scale payments for all visits. We do not take insurance, but you maybe able to use your insurance for labs and prescriptions.
LEARN MORE
Request Appointment
Are you queer? Trans? Nonbinary?
SO ARE WE!!!
Crystal Beal, MD
(they/themme)
FOUNDER
Lin-Fan Wang, MD
(she/her)
Stetson Aman, MD
(they/them)
Nora Gause
(they/them)
Looking for a doctor for transgender and nonbinary healthcare needs?
Tired of culturally insensitive care and having to explain your care needs to your prescriber? Here at QueerDoc we have experienced these issues from both sides, as the patient and the provider. That’s why we started QueerDoc in 2018, to change the experience of care for our community and to raise the bar in gender affirming care. At QueerDoc, we believe gender affirming care is not one size fits all. Our QueerDocs and entire team are informed by community experience ( that&#8217;s right — the voices of trans folx ), their own lived experience , professional guidelines established by UCSF , WPATH , TransLine , and the Endocrine Society , plus the latest evidence, and their vast clinical expertise. They use that expertise and experience to guide you through decision making about your healthcare and your body, based on your gender care goals. QueerDoc provides individualized care to you from the safety of your own home.
We all share intersectional identities with our transness and queerness. We understand the importance of intersectionality. Our team participates in regular, recurring anti-bias training. Our staff works to understand their own implicit bias and receive additional training in culture humility from trainers with lived experience. Our anti-bias training to-date has included anti-racism training, indigiqueer training, and anti-sizeism training. At QueerDoc, we are fat, disabled, black, brown, poly, and more. We are committed to dismanteling white supremacy and the patriarchy in medicine.
Meet our Team
Do you want to read more about it?
We have a lot of articles!
Oh, The Places You'll Go: Estrogen Receptors
September 1, 2026
Getting In Touch With Us: Contacting QueerDoc (Aug. 2026)
August 27, 2026
A QueerDoc Announcement on QueerDoc, PLLC vs. The DOJ, August 17,2026
August 17, 2026
Hormones and Hormonal Transitions Are A Near Universal Human Experience (August 2026)
August 9, 2026
Where Can I Get A Mental Health Support Letter for Gender Affirming Care? (July 2026)
July 28, 2026
A New SERM for Atrophy: What's Ospemifene? (July 2026)
July 23, 2026
MORE ARTICLES
Manage Cookie Consent
We use cookies to enhance your browsing experience, serve personalized ads or content, and analyze our traffic. By clicking "Accept", you consent to our use of cookies.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent
Search