C O N N E C T I C U T P R O B A T E C O U R T S
Petition for Change
of Name (Minor)
PC-900 REV. 8/19
Petition for Change of Name (Minor) PC-900 Page 1 of 2
RECEIVED:
Instructions: 1) A parent or guardian of a minor child as next friend may use this form to petition for a change of name
of a child who is under the age of 18. If a parent does not join in the petition, the petition must specify
the reasons the parent has not joined in the petition.
2) The petition must be filed in the court for the probate district in which the minor resides and be
accompanied by a) PC-910A, Affidavit RE Change of Name (Minor), b) a certified copy of the
minor’s long-form birth certificate and c) PC-900CI, Confidential Sheet, with the minor child's
confidential social security number.
3) For more information, see Probate Court Rules of Procedure, section 47.2.
4) Type or print in ink. Use an additional sheet, or PC-180, if more space is needed.
Probate Court Name District Number
In re (Current name of minor child.)
Middle
Address of Minor Child Minor Child’s Date of Birth Minor Child’s Place of Birth
Petitioner as next friend (Name, address, and telephone number) Petitioner’s Relationship to
Minor Child
Co-Petitioner as next friend (Name, address and telephone number) Co-Petitioner’s Relationship
to Minor Child
Non-Petitioning Parent (Name, address and telephone number) Non-Petitioning Parent’s
Relationship to Minor Child
Specify why the non-petitioning parent is not joining in this petition:
Guardian of Minor (If not the petitioner, list name, address and telephone number of any court-appointed guardian.)
To the best knowledge and belief of the petitioner, there is is not a proceeding pending or contemplated in
another court affecting the custody of the minor child.
First Last
Hereinafter referred to as the minor child
C O N N E C T I C U T P R O B A T E C O U R T S
Petition for Change
of Name (Minor)
PC-900 REV. 8/19
Petition for Change of Name (Minor) PC-900 Page 2 of 2
The petitioner(s) represents that:
It is in the best interest of the minor child to change the minor child’s name
From:
First Middle Last
To:
First Middle Last
A change of name is sought for the following reasons:
The purpose of seeking a change of name is not to deceive, defraud or mislead any person or governmental agency but
solely for the reason(s) stated above.
WHEREFORE, the petitioner(s) as next friend request a change of name of the minor child to the name stated above.
The representations made in this petition are made under penalty of false statement.
Signature of Petitioner
Type or Print Name
Date
Signature of Co-Petitioner
Type or Print Name
Date