Skip to main content
Welcome! This page contains steps that trans and non-binary r esidents of Colorado over 18 years of age , and who have NOT been convicted of a felony, can follow to change their legal name.
Legal Disclaimer
The information contained in this website is meant to give general information to the public and is for educational purposes only. It is not meant to provide specific legal advice for your situation. This website and any handouts/materials are provided as-is with no warranty, express or implied, regarding its accuracy. It was accurate at the time of the last update (January 17, 2026), but statutes and regulations change and it is your responsibility to comply with them in order to properly change your name. If you have specific questions or concerns, please speak with a licensed attorney. Use of this website does not , in itself, constitute an attorney-client relationship with The Colorado Name Change Project or any of the participating attorneys.
PowerPoint Presentation & Process Flow
You can view the full presentation given in the workshop. We have also created a flowchart which will guide you through the process, step-by-step. The Adult Name Change Flowchart is the image on the right, which is also available in PDF .
The Steps to Change Your Name in Colorado
Residency: You can only file a petition in the county court where you are a resident.
Age: For the purposes of this petition, you must be 18 years of age or older. There is a separate process for minors .
Criminal Record: A felony conviction in any state will make your legal name change more complicated. If you have a felony, we strongly recommend consulting with a licensed attorney. There are separate forms and additional requirements.
You must submit criminal history checks from both the Federal Bureau (FBI) and Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) at the time the petition is filed and they must be dated within 90 days of the petition being filed. Colorado Fingerprinting is currently the only place that can administer the fingerprinting cards and submit both the FBI and CBI background check requests. Expect your FBI results within 24-72 hours (will be sent via email) and your CBI results in 2 weeks.
Colorado Fingerprinting can process both FBI and CBI background checks at all of their locations. Please visit Colorado Fingerprinting or call 720.292.2722 to make an appointment. Please note that while they do have locations across the state, some may be closed due to limited operations and COVID-19 precautions.
When registering for your appointment:
Step 1 – Register for the Cabiond account. Add a Legal Name Change to your cart. Ensure that FBI is also checked. The CBI unique ID 3975LNCA should populate automatically during the registration process.
Step 2 – Go on the day of your appointment to have your fingerprints taken.
Step 3 – Once your fingerprints are accepted by CBI, you will receive an email with instructions on how to order the FBI background check. The total cost is $89.50. CBI is $34.50 and FBI is $55.
Packet instructions and blank forms are available in both PDF and MS Word formats on the Judicial Branch website here . You can also use our Automated Name Change Generators (using a browser other than Chrome).
You may complete the forms on your computer or fill them in by hand, printing legibly in black ink. We recommend using your computer.
Do not sign the Petition yet . You must sign the petition in front of the court clerk or a notary public.
Original Petition
Complete all sections on this form.
You will attach the fingerprint-based FBI and CBI criminal history reports to the original petition and identify them as “Exhibit A.”
Attach any other criminal disposition documentation, if required, and identify it as “Exhibit B.”
Instructions for the Order for Publication for Change of Name
Complete all sections of this form.
This is the form that judge or magistrate would sign to order publication of your name change. Although you are exempt from publication under Jude&#8217;s Law, this form must still be submitted.
Instructions for the Public Notice
Complete all sections of this form.
This is the form that would be given to a local newspaper to publish notice of the requested name change. Although you are exempt from publication under Jude&#8217;s Law, this form must still be submitted.
Proposed Final Decree
Complete the section at the top ONLY. The judge/magistrate will check the boxes and sign the order.
Exemption of Publication for Name Change
Following passage and implementation of HB19-1039 (known as &#8220;Jude&#8217;s Law), transgender and non-binary Coloradans are exempt from the publication requirement per Colo. Rev. Stat. § 13-15-102(4) , which states:
“A petitioner need not give public notice of a name change as required by subsection (1) of this section if the petitioner is changing the petitioner&#8217;s name to conform with the petitioner&#8217;s gender identity.”
You can read more about the effort to remove unnecessary and unconstitutional hurdles to legally changing names and correcting gender markers at the bottom of this page.
However, you still must include the Public Notice and Order for Publication for Change of Name, described above.
The filing fee for the petition is $98 in County Court .
If you are unable to pay the filing fee, you may complete the Motion to File Without Payment and Supporting Financial Affidavit and submit it to the court. After you submit the completed forms and a blank order ( JDF 205 and 206 ), the court will decide whether you need to pay the filing fee.
Each court may have slightly different procedures. Contact the court in the county you reside in for specific days or times when name change hearings are scheduled. We have a spreadsheet with the court dates & times for name change hearings, which we update as we receive new information. If you have corrections or additions, please contact us .
You may have your hearing on the same day that you file your case or a future hearing may be set. Additionally, some courts may not require a hearing and will issue an Order for the Motion and/or Order for Publication following a review of the petition and supporting documentation.
There may be additional fees/costs that apply.
You will receive the Final Decree via mail once all the steps are completed and the judge approves your petition.
A hearing could be required. You may have your hearing on the same day that you file your case or a future hearing will be set.
At the hearing, the judge may ask you questions about your name change. We suggest having a &#8220;cheat sheet&#8221; that has the information you&#8217;d like to convey to the judge on it, such as why publication should not be required.
Additionally, some courts may not require a hearing. If no hearing is required, the court will either issue Final Decree or Notice/Order for Publication following a review of the petition and supporting documentation.
We have a handy spreadsheet with the court dates & times for name change hearings, which we update as we receive new information.
You should not be ordered to publish because of the statutory exemption, but there is the possibility that a judge ends up ordering publication, due to a miscommunication, incomplete Petition, etc. Please make sure you select the box on the Petition stating that &#8220;Publication is not required&#8221;.
If this happens, please contact us ASAP as we can help you with filing a Motion for Exemption from Publication.
Cost of Fingerprints: The price through Colorado Fingerprinting is a total of $89.50.
County Court Filing Fee: $98
Certification Fee: $20 per certified copy (you will need at least two)
Automatically Generate the Required Forms
Select the button below to automatically generate the forms needed for changing your legal name in Colorado. Again, this process is for t rans and non-binary Colorado Residents over the age of 18 who have NOT been convicted of a felony . Update: Jefferson County now uses the same forms as the other Colorado counties.
Adult Name Change Form Generator
Jude&#8217;s Law ( HB19-1039 ) Update:
The Colorado Name Change Project, Colorado LGBT Bar Association , Interfaith Alliance of Colorado , OneColorado and several other individuals & organizations worked tirelessly over a five-year period to advance Jude&#8217;s Law. It was signed into law by Gov. Polis on May 31, 2019. Jude&#8217;s Law simplifies the process for legal name changes and gender marker corrections for transgender Coloradans in several ways:
Legal Name Changes &#8211; Removes the publication requirement for trans Coloradans (effective Jan 1, 2020)
Colorado Birth Certificates (already effective due to B.D. v. Colorado and an Administrative Rule Change on Feb 14, 2019)
Removes the surgical requirement for correction of gender
Removes the District Court order requirement
Creates a self-attestation process for adults
Allows either medical or behavioral heath professionals to certify a minor&#8217;s gender correction
Removes the &#8220;Amended&#8221; annotation for gender marker corrections
Adds &#8220;Intersex&#8221; and &#8220;X&#8221; as gender marker options
Colorado Driver&#8217;s Licenses & State IDs
Removes the requirement for medical or behavioral health signature for gender marker corrections (effective Jan 1, 2020)
Adds &#8220;X&#8221; as a gender marker option (already effective due to B.D. v. Colorado and an Administrative Rule Change on Feb 14, 2019)
Search for:
Archives
Meta
Log in
The Colorado Name Change Project is a 501(c)(3) organization that operates off of donations from folks just like you. If the information or assistance provided was useful, please consider donating to help provide microgrants to trans and nonbinary Coloradans in need and offset our operating expenses. All CNCP staff are volunteers and 100% of your donation will go to helping trans Coloradans with their name and gender marker corrections.
Donate now!
×
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings .
Accept
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
3rd Party Cookies
Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognizing you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie must be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you do not agree to this use, you should leave our website now.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
3rd Party Cookies
This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages.
Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Settings