Skip to main content
Backpack? Check!
Notebook? Check!
Check-up? Um.
Get your kiddo’s back-to-school check-up scheduled today.
Our Services
Comprehensive care for you, & about you. Comprehensive care for all.
General Care
Adult Primary Care
Pediatric Care
Dental Care
Mental Health
Specialty Care
OB/GYN
Diabetes Management
Infectious Disease Treatment
Sexual Health Clinic
Substance Use Treatment
Podiatry
Supporting Your Care
Pharmacy
Patient Support Services
Lab Services
Nutrition
Walk-In & Same Day Services
What to Expect at Chase Brexton
Comprehensive care for you, & about you. Comprehensive care for all.
Everyone is Welcome.
Baby or Baby Boomer, insured or uninsured, new to the community or new to this country, we are here for you. Open, expert health care for all.
Our Mission
Support Services for Total Wellness.
Housing, money, and food issues are part of your health, too. We will help you get what you need to be healthy.
Patient Support Services
At the beginning I thought it was going to be hard cutting out a lot of my favorite foods and snacks, but it&#039;s a good nice journey. I stuck with it and Dr. Sarah. She made it kind of easy. She was real good. They gave me a lot of packages and notes and all that stuff. It helped out a lot. Showed me a lot of foods, what to eat, what not to eat. I got family so I was thinking about them too. I got three kids so I had to get healthy for them.
Denard F.
Patient, &#039;myA1CinCheck&#039; Diabetes Management Program
Support Our Mission
Make a Gift
Our Impact
How to Get Involved
Baltimore Gala 2026
Save the date! Chase Brexton’s Baltimore Gala is Saturday, March 21, 2026.
About the Gala
All Special Events
Community & Patient Resources
Find Care
Call for an Appointment
For New Patients
Browse Providers
Same-Day Services
Help Center
Phone Extensions
Costs & Coverage
Telehealth FAQ
Portal FAQ
Patient Support Services
Get Involved
Find an Event
Read our Blog
Give to Chase Brexton
Serving Patients at five Maryland Locations
(410) 837-2050
All Locations
View us on Facebook
View us on Instagram
View us on YouTube
View us on x
&copy;
2026
Chase Brexton Health Services, Inc. A registered 501(c)(3).
Chase Brexton has FTCA deemed status with respect to malpractice claims.
Privacy Policy
Notice of Non-Discrimination
Chase Brexton Health Care is a member of the Maryland Community Health System and the Mid-Atlantic Association of Community Health Centers (MACHC).
This website uses cookies to measure traffic and improve your experience. Declining tracking cookies will set a single cookie to remember your preference. You can manage your cookie preference at any time and learn more by visiting our
Privacy Policy .
Decline
Accept