Skip to main content
Search
Submit
VHC Portal
Home
Health Insurance Changes
How to Apply
How to Pay
Financial Help
Compare Plans
Report a Change
Find Local Help
Small Businesses Resources
Learn More
About Us
Important Message: Keep your account up to date. Let us know about any changes in your life .
Vermont Health Connect Info Center
Getting Started
Already a Member?
Update your information and report a Change
Compare Plans
Learn what's changed in the marketplace
New Here? Or just want to learn more? Check out these customer resources
Health Insurance Basics
Financial Help
Compare Plans
Learn more about various in-depth topics
Ready to apply or have questions?
Online via our secure portal at portal.healthconnect.vermont.gov
Call us at 1-855-899-9600 .
Use our Assister Directory to find personalized, in-person help near you.
What health coverage do we offer?
You and your family have many quality options. You can compare health plans and apply for assistance that could lower the cost of coverage.
Medicaid or Dr. Dynasaur offers free, or low-cost, health coverage. Learn more >>
Qualified health plans (QHP) provide essential health benefits and set limits on the maximum amount a customer pays during the plan year. Most Vermonters who are eligible for a QHP get financial help paying for their plan. Learn more >>
When can I apply for health coverage?
If eligible, you can enroll in Medicaid or Dr. Dynasaur anytime.
Open Enrollment runs yearly, from November 1 to December 28. It is the time you can sign up for a qualified health plan and a dental plan . Or you can change the Plan you have.
Some life changes let you have a Special Enrollment Period . This is the only time you can sign up for new coverage or change plans outside of Open Enrollment. Learn more >>
IMPORTANT! You can get financial help for a qualified health plan ONLY if you sign up through Vermont Health Connect.
Plan Comparision Tool
Apply Now
Report A Change
Medicaid and Dr. Dynasaur
Financial Help
Eligibility Tables
Find Local Help
Assisters are here to help you with Vermont insurance programs. Get help online, over-the-phone, or in-person.
2026 Plan Comparison Tool
Use this tool to compare costs and see which health plan best fits your needs.
2026 Affordable Employer Coverage Tool
Find out if the health insurance coverage you are offered from an employer is considered affordable.