Do you need to change your name
or gender marker on your ID card,
license, registration or title?
To change your name or gender marker (appears as “sex” on the license) on your
Oregon ID, instruction permit or driver’s license, you will need to visit an Oregon
DMV office to get a new card. Walk-ins are welcome at all DMV office, or you can
make an appointment at DMV2U.Oregon.gov.
Gender marker
If you are changing only your gender marker, just bring your current ID,
instruction permit or driver’s license with you to your local DMV to start your
application. Simply select one of the three gender markers — M (male), F
(female) or X (not specified) — and pay for a new or replacement ID, permit
or driver’s license. Additional fees (and document needs) apply to REAL ID
credentials.
Name change
If you are changing your name on your driver’s license, ID card, permit,
registration or title, you will need to bring in official documentation proving
your new identity. View the list of acceptable documents at
oregon.gov/odot/dmv/pages/driverid/idproof.aspx. DMV verifies a customer’s
social security number with Social Security Administration, so customers wanting
to change their name on their license must first change their name with SSA.
Oregon DMV is required to maintain a history of all your issuances and the
names you use. To prevent identity theft and fraud, DMV uses facial recognition
technology to determine the existence of a duplicate record. If more than one
record is found, DMV will find both records and combine them.
Resources
We have helpful tools and instructions available to individuals needing official
documentation to change their name. Form packets for name and gender change
are available from the Oregon Judicial Department at
courts.oregon.gov/programs/family/forms/Pages/name-sex-change.aspx.
Go to ssa.gov/personal-record/change-name for instructions on changing your
name with the Social Security Administration. As of Jan. 31, 2025, the Social
Security Administration stopped processing gender marker updates associated
with social security records.
Making changes to and obtaining your birth certificate?
o For those born in Oregon, OHA has a defined process for changes to a birth
record. Go to oregon.gov/oha/ph/birthdeathcertificates and click on Change
Birth Record.
o Not born in Oregon? Check with your birth state for more information.
FACT SHEET • DMV Changing Name or Gender Markers • February 2025