Judicial Council of California, courts.ca.gov
Rev. July 1, 2026, Optional Form
Code Civ. Proc., § 1275 et seq.;
Health & Saf. Code, §§ 103425, 103430,
103435, 103440
Instructions for Filing Petition for Recognition of
Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier, Name
Change, and Issuance of New Certificates
NC-300-INFO
INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING PETITION FOR RECOGNITION OF ADULT'S CHANGE OF
GENDER AND SEX IDENTIFIER, NAME CHANGE, AND ISSUANCE OF NEW CERTIFICATES
Note: You do not need to file this petition or obtain a court order in order to obtain a new California birth certificate for you
or your child reflecting a change of gender or a new California marriage license and certificate reflecting a change of
gender. See Health and Safety Code section 103426. You may make the request directly to the State Registrar at the California
Department of Public Health or, for a confidential marriage license and certificate, the county clerk of the county that issued the
confidential marriage license. (See contact information on page 2.)
1. How to Make Request
A petition for recognition of change of gender and sex identifier, either on its own or combined with a request for a name change, a
new birth certificate for petitioner, a new birth certificate for petitioner's child or children, and a new marriage license and certificate
must be filed on form NC-300. This form may only be used by individuals 18 years old or older. (Minors must use form NC-500.)
2. Where to File
The petition to recognize a change of gender and sex identifier may be filed in the superior court of any county in California, but if
the petition includes a request to change petitioner's name, it must be filed:
a. If petitioner is a California resident, in the superior court where petitioner presently resides, or
b. If petitioner is not a California resident, in the superior court in the county where petitioner's or petitioner's child's birth certificate
was issued or where petitioner's marriage was entered into.
3. What Forms Are Required
You will need to have an original and a copy of each of the following documents:
a. Petition for Recognition of Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier, Name Change, and Issuance of New Certificates (form
NC-300)
b. Order Recognizing Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier, for Name Change, and for Issuance of New Certificates (form
NC-330)
c. If requesting order for new birth certificate for child:
Birth Certificate for Child of Petitioner—Attachment (form NC-311)
d. If requesting order for new marriage license and certificate:
Marriage License and Certificate—Attachment (form NC-312) and, if form NC-312 is not signed by the other spouse, Order to
Show Cause—Issuance of New Marriage License and Certificate (form NC-325)
e. Civil Case Cover Sheet (form CM-010)
Local courts may require additional local forms. Check with the court to determine if additional forms are required.
4. Filing With Court
Prepare an original Civil Case Cover Sheet (form CM-010). Take the completed petition, with any required attachments and the
proposed orders with the Civil Case Cover Sheet, along with a copy of each document, to the clerk of the court. Obtain a filed-
endorsed copy (stamped by the clerk) of the petition and ask that any required orders to show cause be issued.
A filing fee will be charged unless you qualify for a fee waiver. (If you want to apply for a fee waiver, see Request to Waive Court
Fees (form FW-001) and Information Sheet on Waiver of Superior Court Fees and Costs (form FW-001–INFO).)
5. Service on Spouse
If seeking a change to your marriage license and certificate, and the spouse sharing that marriage license has not signed the form
(and is alive and capable of signing it), you must serve the Order to Show Cause—Issuance of New Marriage License and
Certificate (form NC-325) that has been issued by the court, along with a copy of the petition, on that spouse within four weeks from
the date on which the order is made by the court. It must be served in person or, if out of state, by mail, in the manner described in
Code of Civil Procedure sections 413.10, 414.10, or 415.40. Service must be made by someone other than you, and you must have
the server complete a proof of service and file it with the court (see Proof of Service of Order to Show Cause (form NC-221/NC-321/
NC-521)).
NC-300-INFO, Page 1 of 2
For your protection and privacy, please press the Clear
button after you have printed the form.
Rev. July 1, 2026 Instructions for Filing Petition for Recognition of
Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier, Name
Change, and Issuance of New Certificates
NC-300-INFO
6. Service on Government Agency—Name Change for Person in Jail or Prison or on Parole
If you are in county jail or under the jurisdiction of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (in state prison, or on
parole), a petition to change your name—including one on form NC-300—must be served on a government agency.
If in county jail, you must provide a copy of the petition to the county sheriff's department.
If in state prison, you must provide a copy of the petition to the warden.
If on parole, you must provide a copy of the petition to the regional parole administrator.
Check with each office as to how to serve. After you have provided a copy to the sheriff, warden, or regional parole administrator,
file a copy of the completed Proof of Service By First-Class Mail—Civil (form POS-030) with the court.
Note that the declaration on form NC-300 as to whether the petitioner is in jail or under jurisdiction of the California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation is only for purposes of determining if service of the petition is required.
7. Court Hearings
A hearing date will be set if a nonsigning spouse, as described in item 5, files a timely objection. If there is a hearing, you will be
sent a notice by the court. Bring copies of all documents to the hearing. If the judicial officer grants the petition, the judicial officer
will sign Order Recognizing Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier, for Name Change, and for Issuance of New Certificates
(form NC-330). If no timely objections are filed, the court will grant the petition and sign the order without a hearing.
8. Requesting Accommodations for Disability
If you have a disability and need an accommodation to help you access your court hearing, you can use Disability Accommodation
Request (form MC-410) to make your request. You can also ask the court's ADA Coordinator in your court for help. For more
information, see How to Request a Disability Accommodation for Court (form MC-410-INFO).
9. Issuance of New Birth Certificate
If you were born in California, or if your children were, to obtain a new birth certificate for you or them reflecting your change of
gender, file a certified copy of the order with the State Registrar and pay the applicable fees. You may write or contact the State
Registrar at:
California Department of Public Health
Vital Records – MS 5103
P.O. Box 997410
Sacramento, CA 95899-7410
Phone: 916-445-2684
Website: www.cdph.ca.gov
10.Issuance of New Marriage License and Certificate
If you were married in California, to obtain a new marriage license and certificate reflecting your change of gender with a change in
your designation to bride, groom, or neither, file a certified copy of the order, and pay the applicable fees, as follows:
If the original marriage license and certificate was confidential, then file with the county clerk in the county where the
confidential marriage license and certificate was issued. (A confidential marriage is a marriage that is available to two unmarried
adults who have been living together as spouses. Confidential marriages do not require witnesses to attend a ceremony or sign
the marriage license.)
If the original marriage license and certificate was not confidential, then file with the State Registrar, whose contact information
is given in item 9 above.
11.Self-Help Guide
For more information, please visit the California Courts Self-Help Guide on gender recognition, available at
selfhelp.courts.ca.gov/gender-recognition-order-index.
Local courts may supplement these instructions. Check with the court to determine whether supplemental information is available.
For instance, the court may provide you with additional written information identifying the department that handles these petitions,
the times when petitions are heard if hearings are required, and whether remote appearances by video or telephone are available.
NC-300-INFO, Page 2 of 2