Go to Content
Health care that affirms who you are.
Planned Parenthood Great Plains is committed to serving all people in our communities with care and respect. We are proud to provide sexual and reproductive health care and education to transgender and non-binary people in communities across our region.
Make an appointment at any of our health centers in Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma.
Make An Appointment
BOOK ONLINE
What is gender-affirming care?
Gender-affirming care includes any medical or mental health care that supports transgender and non-binary people's transition process. We offer gender-affirming hormone therapy at PPGP, which consists of either feminizing (estrogen) or masculinizing (testosterone) hormones. Many trans people take hormones as part of medical transition to help their bodies and appearance align with their gender identity.
What is transitioning?
Transitioning is the process some people may go through to live as the gender with which they identify, rather than the sex assigned to them at birth. Transitioning can involve medical treatment and hormones, changing name and pronouns, altering appearance and dress, and/or coming out to friends and family. Not all transgender and non-binary people engage in all types of transition, but for many, gender-affirming care is an essential part of transition.
What is gender-affirming hormone therapy?
Some people feel a misalignment between their body and their gender, which may cause discomfort or distress. For those who feel this way, gender-affirming hormone therapy can produce changes in the body that can alleviate that discomfort or distress, and make you feel more at ease with yourself both emotionally and physically.
Do all people who transition have surgery?
No, many transgender people transition without surgery. Some have no desire to pursue surgeries or other medical treatment. If you're interested in surgical options, we can refer you to other health care providers.
What physical effects will hormone treatment have on me?
Gender-affirming hormones function by helping your body to develop different secondary sex characteristics, resulting in a more masculine or feminine appearance. Beginning gender-affirming hormone therapy has many similarities to going through puberty. For more specific information, see What are the effects of testosterone? and What are the effects of estrogen?
How expensive is gender-affirming hormone therapy?
It depends on a lot of things, including your transition goals, insurance status and type, income, and other factors. PPGP accepts most major insurances and our financial counselors will work with you to determine how to pay for hormone therapy, whether you have insurance or not.
What are the effects of estrogen?
Fat may be distributed on the hips.
The size of the penis and testicles may be slightly reduced.
Erections and orgasms may be harder to achieve.
Muscle bulk and strength may be reduced.
Breasts may feel tender and lumpy and may sometimes increase modestly in size.
The growth of facial and body hair may slow.
Androgenetic alopecia (baldness) may be slowed or stopped.
Although hormones taken in adulthood can help to keep your bones healthy, they can't alter your skeletal shape or your height.
How long will I need to take hormones?
Like many other medications, you'll need to keep taking hormones as long as you want to maintain all of the effects. Some of the effects of hormones are permanent once changes have occurred in your body, and others will revert if you stop taking hormones. If you're interested in starting hormones, your doctor will review with you which changes are permanent and which are not before prescribing any medication.
What are the effects of testosterone?
Beard and body hair growth will be promoted.
Androgenetic alopecia (baldness) may develop.
The clitoris increases slightly in size.
Libido may be heightened.
Muscle bulk increases.
The voices deepens.
Periods will stop, although there may be some breakthrough bleeding.
Some individuals develop acne.
Although hormones taken in adulthood can help to keep your bones healthy, they can't alter your skeletal shape or your height.
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all