Page 1 of 7 Civil Rule 84
CIV-699 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
Safety Note
The court will normally post a public notice about a change of name request on the Alaska
Court System’s legal notice website. However, if you have personal safety concerns about this
public posting, you can ask the judge to waive (not have to do) this legal requirement. In
addition, you can ask that your case be kept confidential or that your name not be published in
the case listed on the court’s public index (CourtView) on the internet. For more information,
see Step 2 of these instructions or contact your local court clerk.
Step 1. Fill out the petition form,
Petition for Change of Name (form CIV-700).
On the "AT" line at the top of the form, write the city where the court you will be
filing at is located. Leave the "CASE NO." line blank. The court clerk will assign
the number and fill this in once you file with the court.
On the "Petitioner" line and in Section 1, write your current legal name. Look at
your original birth certificate (or the most recent legal document that changed
your name, such as a marriage certificate or divorce decree) to make sure that
you are spelling your current legal name exactly as it appears on those legal
documents. Check that any punctuation marks such as dashes and periods are
exactly the same also. You may not be able to get your identification documents
changed if the current name submitted to the court does not exactly match
existing records. If you do not have a middle name, leave the line blank (do not
write “N/A” or “none”).
In Section 2, write the new name you want to have. Make sure that you type or
write clearly and double-check the spelling.
Section 3 asks whether you want to request an amendment (change) to your
birth certificate. The judge can include an order to change your birth certificate
on the change of name judgment. If you think you may want this, check the
box. You can always change your mind and not complete the steps to change
the certificate. But if you do not ask for it now and the judge does not order the
certificate change on the initial judgment, you will have to reopen the case and
ask for it with a motion, which is a more complicated process. You don’t have to
amend your birth certificate if you don’t want to, you will still be able to use your
new name on documents such as your driver’s license and passport.
If the name on your birth certificate is different than your current legal name,
make sure you write your name exactly the same as shown on your birth
certificate in the last line of Section 3. This includes any punctuation marks such
as dashes or periods.
If your birth certificate was issued in a state other than Alaska, contact that
state’s vital records office for instructions on what the judgment needs to
include. Other states may have additional or different requirements than Alaska.
In Section 11, you can explain anything else you want the judge to address.
Page 2 of 7 Civil Rule 84
CIV-699 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
If boxes 6-10 apply to you, check the appropriate box. You can still get a name
change, but there may be additional legal notice required. It is important to take
care of this notice right away or your case could be delayed.
Wait to sign the form until you are in front of a notary. A court clerk can
provide this notary service for you (at no charge) when you bring the petition to
court. You must bring a photo ID with you for the notarization. If you do not
have access to a notary or court clerk, you may fill out and attach
Self
Certification (No Notary Available) (form TF-835).
Step 2. Safety Concerns (form CIV-708). [Optional.]
If you have concerns about your personal safety if your proposed name change
is posted publicly, you can ask the court to waive posting (that is, not require it
to be posted). Fill out
Request to Waive Posting in Adult Change of Name Case
(form CIV-708) and attach it to your petition when you file the case. This form
also asks whether you want your case to be confidential or sealed, and whether
you want the court to use “Not Published” for your name on public CourtView.
The form explains in more detail what each of these requests means. Only fill
out page 1; page 2 is for the judge.
You can get this form notarized at the same time as your petition. If you do not
have access to a notary or court clerk and are attaching form TF-835 instead,
include CIV-708 on the list of documents in section 1.
The court may decide the request based only on what you wrote on the form, or
the court may schedule a hearing to decide your request. At this hearing, the
court will only decide whether or not to grant a waiver of public posting and/or
grant any requests for confidentiality. This hearing will not approve the name
change itself.
If you file form CIV-708 at the same time as you open your case, then
your case will not be public when it is opened, and the clerk will not post the
proposed name change on the court’s website, until after the judge makes a
decision on your request. If the judge grants your request, the case will stay
unavailable to the public and the proposed name change will not be posted. If
the judge denies your request, the clerk will wait at least ten days before making
your case public. This is to give you time to decide whether you want to
withdraw (cancel) your petition for the name change. If you withdraw, the case
will be closed and will not be public. If you decide not to withdraw, then after
the waiting period, the court clerk will schedule a hearing on the name change,
and a notice will be posted on the website.
If you file form CIV-708 after your case is already open, then the case
will remain public until the judge makes a decision on your request. If the judge
grants the request, the court clerk will immediately remove it from public view.
If the judge denies the request, your case will proceed as usual.
Page 3 of 7 Civil Rule 84
CIV-699 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
Notice on Using TrueFiling
1. See if TrueFiling is available for your case type and court location at ak-courts.info/tfcourts.
2. If available, you must use TrueFiling unless you are exempt. You are exempt if one of
these applies:
• You are in a jail or correctional facility.
• You have a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
• You do not have safe access to a computer, internet, or email.
• You cannot access the help you need to use TrueFiling.
• You have a language barrier or are Limited English Proficient.
You do not need to prove you are exempt. If you are exempt and you choose not to use
TrueFiling, you must tell the court you are exempt on your first filing with the court. Many forms
have a check box and space for you to do this already on the form. If not, write the following
statement on your form or document and sign your name after it: “I certify that I am exempt
from using TrueFiling for a reason listed in Administrative Bulletin 92.”
Step 3. File your petition in court.
For TrueFiling Users:
If you filled out your petition electronically, save it as a separate document to
your local device. If you filled out your petition in paper, scan or photograph it
(make sure it is legible) and save it in a PDF or TIFF file format.
Create a TrueFiling account (if you don’t already have one) and log in:
https://akfile.truefiling.com/login. Upload your petition. See ak-
courts.info/tfhowto for detailed instructions on using TrueFiling.
You can pay the filing fee in TrueFiling with a debit or credit card. A window will
pop up after you select your case type with instructions for paying the fee. If
you cannot afford the fee, fill out
Request for Exemption from Payment of Fees,
form TF-920. Upload it as one “bundle” with your petition.
For People NOT Using TrueFiling:
Make a copy of everything you plan to file in court, including any attachments.
Keep the copy for your records.
File the original petition and any attachments at the nearest court and pay the
filing fee in the amount specified in Administrative Rule 9(b). Fees are also listed
online at ak-courts.info/courtfees. If you file in person, you can pay the clerk
with most forms of payment. If you mail your petition to the court, include a
check or money order payable to “State of Alaska.”
Page 4 of 7 Civil Rule 84
CIV-699 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
Step 4. Order for Hearing.
The court clerk will give or send you
Order for Hearing, Posting, and Additional
Service (form CIV-701). This order will tell you (1) the date of your court
hearing, (2) whether the court system will post notice,* and (3) whether or not
you must do additional public posting or notify anyone else of your petition. The
hearing date must take place at least 40 days after the date of this order.
Step 5. Posting Notice on Court’s Website. [Unless waived for safety concerns.]
The court will automatically post notice on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice
website for four consecutive weeks, unless the court waived this requirement in
a written order.* After the posting, the clerk will file
Clerk’s Certificate of Service
of Posting (form TF-815) to the website.
Step 6. Additional Service. [Only if ordered by the court.]
The court may order you to do additional posting or notice. Read your order
(form CIV-701) carefully to understand what the court is requiring you to do,
including what proof you must provide that you completed it. If you do not
follow the court’s instructions, your name change may be delayed or denied.
The following paragraphs describe in detail some common orders you may see,
but you should follow the instructions on your order if they are different than the
instructions below.
a. Notice to a Person, Agency, or Other Entity.
The order may tell you to give a copy of the notice to a specific person,
agency, or entity (such as a corporation). Unless the court gives you a
specific method to do this, choose whichever method is likely to give the
person actual notice. This could be mailing or emailing it to the person’s
known work or home address, handing the person a physical copy, posting to
a social networking account, or using a process server. If the court orders
you to use a specific method, then you must use that method. Whichever
method you use, once you have completed it, fill out
Affidavit of Additional
Service (form CIV-702). The court may require you to provide a specific kind
of proof of service, which you should attach to the affidavit. File the original
affidavit (and all attachments) with the court before the court hearing, or
bring it with you to the hearing.
Note: If you are on parole or supervised felony probation, you must give
notice to your assigned parole or probation officer. If you are incarcerated
(for example, in jail, in prison, or at a halfway house), then you must give
notice to your institutional probation officer, if you have one. If you are
required to register on the Sex Offender and Child Kidnapper Registry under
AS 12.63.010, then you must notify the Department of Public Safety. Read
your order carefully for any other requirements or details.
* See Step 2 or the text box at the beginning of these instructions for more information about how to
request that the court not post notice.
Page 5 of 7 Civil Rule 84
CIV-699 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
b. Publication in a Print Newspaper.
Take the order to the listed newspaper and tell the newspaper staff that you
need to publish the "Notice of Petition to Change Name" (on page 2 of the
order) in the legal notices section of their newspaper, once each week for
four consecutive weeks, before the date of the court hearing. You will have
to pay the newspaper for this service. Do not wait to do this. All four
publications of the notice must happen before the court hearing. After the
notice has been published all four times, the newspaper will give you an
"Affidavit of Publication" that will contain a copy of the published notice and
the dates when it was published. File this affidavit with the court before the
court hearing, or bring it with you to the hearing.
c. Posting to an Online Newspaper.
Make copies of the notice and post it in the places listed in the order for the
number of days stated in the order. After posting is complete, get an
affidavit of publication from the online publication’s publisher, manager,
foreman, or principal clerk, or by the certificate of the attorney for the party
at whose instance the service was made. You must also get a printed copy
of the posted notice with the name of the online publication and dates of
posting. Attach these documents to
Affidavit of Additional Service (form CIV-
702). File the original affidavit with the court before the court hearing, or
bring it with you to the hearing.
d. Posting in Public Places.
Make copies of the notice and post it in the places listed in the order for the
number of days stated in the order. After posting is completed, fill out
Affidavit of Additional Service (form CIV-702). File the original affidavit with
the court before the court hearing, or bring it with you to the hearing.
Step 7. Court Hearing.
The hearing is usually short and fairly informal. The judge will often start by
making sure that any required notices were done. Then, tell the judge why you
want to change your name, and testify under oath to the judge that you are not
seeking to change your name in order to avoid debts, defraud anyone, obstruct
law enforcement, or interfere with another person’s rights.
Step 8. Judgment for Change of Name.
If the judge finds that there is no reasonable objection to the name change, and
that it is not contrary to the public interest, the judge will sign a judgment
allowing you to take the new name. However, you cannot begin using the new
name yet, because the judgment will not be effective until the rest of these steps
are completed.
Step 9. Posting Notice of Judgment. [Unless waived for safety concerns.]
The court will automatically post notice on the legal notice website for one week,
unless the court waived this requirement in a written order. After the posting,
the clerk will file
Clerk’s Certificate of Service of Posting (form TF-815) to the
website.
Page 6 of 7 Civil Rule 84
CIV-699 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
Step 10. Additional Service of Judgment. [Only if ordered by the court.]
The judge may order you to do additional posting or notice. See Step 6 of these
instructions for more information on this. After you complete what the judge
ordered you to do, fill out
Affidavit of Additional Service (form CIV-702) and file
the original with the court. You must do this within 20 days of the date of the
clerk’s distribution of the judgment.
Step 11. Certificate of Name Change.
Once any requirements in Steps 9 and 10 are complete, the clerk will send you
Certificate of Name Change (form CIV-705). If the judgment does not require
additional service, then the clerk will issue this certificate automatically after the
one-week posting on the court’s website, without waiting for any proof of
posting from you.
You can begin using your new name on the date stated in the
Certificate of
Name Change. This date will be at least 30 days after the judgment was
distributed. The clerk will give you two copies of the certificate. One will be a
free certified copy. If you need more certified copies, there will be a charge for
them. See Administrative Rule 9 for current fees.
Records to Change
After changing your name, there are several records you will need to change:
1. Social Security. To avoid tax problems and help assure proper employment credit, you
should notify the Social Security Administration of your name change. Toll free
telephone number: 1-800-772-1213.
2. Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV). If you have an Alaska driver's license or you own a
vehicle registered in Alaska, you must send written notice of your name change to the
DMV within 30 days.1 It is very important that you do this; you could receive a
citation and have to pay a fine, or even be charged with a crime under certain
circumstances, if you fail to do this. Contact a DMV office to find out how they want to
receive written notice. To get a new driver's license or Alaska ID card, go to a DMV
office and present a certified copy of the
Certificate of Name Change (form CIV-705).
3. Vital Records. If you want an amended birth certificate, contact the Vital Records office
of the state in which you were born to pay any required fee and complete any further
steps. You may need certified copies of the judgment (form CIV-704) and/or certificate
(form CIV-705). Alaska Vital Records can be contacted at (907) 465-3162 or
BVSSpecialServices@alaska.gov. If your judgment does not include an order to change
the birth certificate, you may need to reopen the case to ask for an order. You can do
this by filing a motion explaining to the judge what you want (you may use form TF-706
to do this).
1 AS 28.05.071 and AS 28.35.135(b).
Page 7 of 7 Civil Rule 84
CIV-699 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR ADULT CHANGE OF NAME
4. Sex Offender and Child Kidnapper Registry. If you are required to register under AS
12.63.010, then you must notify the nearest Alaska state trooper post or municipal
police department of your new name by the next working day after receiving the
Certificate of Name Change (form CIV-705). Use
Notification of Petition/Proof of Legal
Name Change (form 12-299-74), available in paper copy from local law enforcement or
online at https://sor.dps.alaska.gov/Home/Documents. Failure to do this is a crime,
with a penalty of up to five years in jail, depending on your criminal history.
5. Other Records. You may also need to change your name on other records such as bank
accounts, insurance policies, the Alaska PFD Division, etc.
Statutes and Rules
The Alaska Statutes and Alaska Court Rules about name changes are:
• Civil Rule 84, which establishes the procedure for changing names.
• Alaska Statute 09.55.010, which gives the superior court the power to hear these cases
and sets the standard the court must use in deciding whether to grant a name change.
It also requires extra notice requirements for individuals that are incarcerated or
charged with a crime, are on probation or parole, or must register on the sex offender
or child kidnapper registry.
• Alaska Statute 25.24.165, which describes the procedure for changing a person's name
in a divorce. Also see AS 25.24.230(c)(2) & (f) concerning dissolutions of marriage.
You can find the rules and statutes at all state courts, court law libraries, and most public
libraries.
Court rules are online at www.courts.alaska.gov/rules/index.htm.
Alaska statutes are online at https://www.akleg.gov/basis/statutes.asp.