Off
Change your name or address on your driver license
Whether you just moved or are updating your name, learn what steps to take to update your personal information on your driver license.
Change your name
If you've legally changed your name and want it on your driver license, you must:
Update your name with the Social Security Administration (SSA) (ssa.gov).
Make an appointment to visit a driver licensing office. You'll need to bring:
Proof of your identity:
A stand-alone or A-list document with your new name on it, or
One of the following documents:
Marriage certificate or license (filed after the ceremony with the county or authorized issuing authority and certified)
Church or wedding chapel forms aren't acceptable
Contact the county or auditor where the license was filed to get a certified copy of a marriage certificate.
Court order (filed and certified by the court)
Divorce decree (filed and certified by the court)
Original birth certificate
Other court or legal actions filed and/or registered with the responsible governmental agency of the recording country, province, state, county, or city
Payment for the fee for a new license with updated information .
When you have your in-person appointment, you will have a new photo taken for your new card.
If you have a sealed name change order from a Washington Superior Court, please contact our Identity Management Team at dol-psdidentitymanagement@dol.wa.gov . We follow a specialized process for sealed name changes to ensure your privacy and protection.
Update your vehicle registration
You may also need to change your name on your vehicle registration . Updating your name on your driver license doesn't change it on your vehicle registration. You'll need to do that separately.
Update your Good To Go! account
If you have a Good To Go! pass, be sure to update the contact information on your account:
Online: www.wsdot.wa.gov/goodtogo/
By phone: 866-936-8246
Change your address
info
Things to know
You have 10 days after you move to change your address on your driver license or ID card
There's no cost to update your address, but there is a $20 fee for getting a new card with your updated address on it
You may also need to change your address on your vehicle registration , as updating your address on your driver license doesn't change it on your vehicle registration
To change your address on your WA driver license/ID card, you can:
Change your address online .
Fill out the Washington Driver License/ID Card Change of Address form and mail to:
Driver Vehicle Records
Department of Licensing
PO Box 9030
Olympia, WA 98507
Mailed address change requests will only be accepted through this form.
Create or log into your account to change your address online
Decide if you want a new card
You can request a new card when you change your address online in your License Express account. It’ll still have your current photo.
If you want a new photo, you'll need to make an appointment to visit a driver licensing office. You can have your photo taken for an additional fee. Be prepared to wait in line. See Tips for visiting an office: Driver licensing offices .
If you don't want a new card, you can wait until you renew your license or ID. This means you won’t be able to use your card as proof of your new address.
Update your vehicle address (if needed)
You may also need to change your address on your vehicle registration
Update your Good to Go! account (if needed)
If you have a Good To Go! electronic tolling pass, be sure to update the contact information on your account with the Department of Transportation:
Online: www.wsdot.wa.gov/goodtogo/
By phone: 866-936-8246
Print
Was this information helpful?
Yes
No
How can we improve it?
Submit
Leave this field blank
Related information
Update your ID card
Learn what steps you need to take to update personal information on your ID card.
Update ID
Change your name or address on your EDL
Whether you recently moved or are changing your name, learn how to update your information on an enhanced driver license.
Update your EDL
Change your address on a vehicle or boat
Learn how to update your address on a vehicle or boat registration or title.
Update your address
Home