Skip to content
College of Law
About the College
About Joe Quinney
Meet The Dean
ABA Disclosures
Faculty Directory
Staff Directory
Open Positions at Utah Law
Utah Law’s 2025 Strategic Plan
Admissions &#038; Degrees
Admissions Home
Financial Aid &#038; Tuition
JD Program &#038; Certificates
Master of Legal Studies Program
Major and Minor in Legal Studies
LLM Program
Micro-Credentials at Utah Law
Visit Us &#038; Virtual Tour
For Admitted JD Students
For Admitted MLS Students
Alumni
Alumni Home
Our Alumni Magazine: Res Gestae
Alumni Board of Trustees
Young Alumni Association
College of Law History
Submit Your Class Notes
Continuing Legal Education (CLE)
Utah Law Merchandise
Centers &#038; Programs
Stegner Center for Environmental Law
Center for Law &#038; Biomedical Sciences
Criminal Law Program
Intellectual Property Program
Current Undergraduate Students
Current MLS Students
MLS Requirements
Academic Calendar
Accessibility Support
MLS Career Strategizing
MLS Scholarships
Course Schedule & Term Information
MLS Student Handbook
Graduation Ceremony
Pro Bono Opportunities
Utah Law Food Pantry
Utah Law Student Organizations
Wellness & Belonging
Current JD Students
JD &#038; Certificate Requirements
LLM Requirements
2L/3L Scholarships &#038; Fellowships
Academic Calendar
Academic Success Program
Accessibility Support
Bar Exam &#038; MPRE Information
Career Advising &#038; Opportunities
Competitions at Utah Law
Course Schedule &#038; Term Information
Experiential Opportunities
Graduation Ceremony
Pro Bono Opportunities
Utah Law Student Organizations
Student Handbook
Wellness &#038; Belonging
Utah Law Food Pantry
Departments
Career Development
Experiential Education
Pro Bono Initiative
Registrar
Student Affairs
Events
Events Calendar
Event Planning
YouTube &#038; Video Archive
Our Faculty
Giving
Give
27 by &#8217;27 Legacy Giving
The Arc to Justice Program
The Quinney Society
Library
Library Home
Legal Database List
Staff Directory
News
Utah Law Review
Utah Law Merchandise
Search Site
Powered by the University of Utah
Powered by
Search Campus
Home PRO BONO INITIATIVE Clients
Looking for free legal advice?
The Pro Bono Initiative (PBI) is a volunteer program that provides free brief legal advice to members of the Utah community. PBI does not provide direct legal representation and cannot represent you in court or file paperwork on your behalf. For specific information about one of PBI’s brief advice programs (including locations), please click on that program’s name within this calendar:
See the full calendar here »
Contact Us
We cannot provide legal advice via phone or email. We can provide only information about our services.
Email: probono@law.utah.edu
The best way to contact us with questions about our services.
Phone: 801-581-5418
Phones are not monitored live. Leave a detailed message, and a team member will get back to you within 2-3 business days.
Mail: Pro Bono Initiative, S.J. Quinney College of Law, 383 S. University Street, Salt Lake City, UT 84112
Note: Most of our programs are held offsite. The above calendar includes location information.
The Pro Bono Initiative offers advice within the following areas of law:
Expungement Law
Answers questions related to criminal expungements and 402 reductions. Note: Please call Utah Legal Services ahead of time to see if you qualify for an expungement (801-328-8891).
Family Law
Answers questions related to child custody, divorce, and protective orders. Note: At this time, PBI is unable to help clients who are looking for information regarding estate planning or trusts.
Immigration Law
Answers questions related to humanitarian and family-based immigration, such as citizenship, status, deportation, and visas. Note: At this time, PBI is unable to help clients who are looking for information regarding employment- or education-based visas.
Rainbow Law
Answers questions related to LGBTQIA+ legal issues, including employment, name and gender marker changes, estate planning, and family law.
Street Law
Answers questions related to housing issues (landlord/tenant disputes and eviction), employment (discrimination, termination, and harassment), debt (bankruptcy, collections, credit issues), and small claims.
Veterans Legal Site
Answers questions related to issues facing veterans, including criminal, family, landlord/tenant, disability, and VA administrative law.
Estate Planning
Answers basic questions related to estate planning. At this program, PBI can assist qualifying clients with the creation of a simple will, living will, and/or healthcare directive, but clients must register in advance by emailing probono@law.utah.edu.
FAQs
What should I expect from an in-person consultation?
Our in-person consultations are walk-in only; we do not offer guaranteed appointments. The location for each program is listed in the calendar above.
When you arrive at the program, please check-in at the front desk with the Student Director. You will be asked to add your name to a sign-in sheet and given a waiver to sign. There may be a wait depending on volunteer availability, so bring a book or something to keep you busy. Once a team is available, the Student Director will pair you with a law student volunteer who will assist you with your legal questions.
PBI legal advice consultations last for approximately 30 minutes. During that time, the volunteer law students will do their best to answer your questions, demystify the legal process, and help get you to the next stage of your process. They will consult with supervising attorneys prior to giving any advice. If you need additional support, you may be given referrals to other legal agencies or encouraged to come to another PBI program.
What should I expect from an online consultation?
Our online consultations are offered by appointment only. If you are interested in an online appointment, please email probono@law.utah.edu . We cannot guarantee availability for an online appointment, but we will do our best to accommodate.
The consultation will be held via Zoom at the time of your appointment. Prior to the meeting, we recommend that you test the Zoom application on either your phone, tablet, or computer. If you are unable to use Zoom, please email probono@law.utah.edu and we can arrange for you to connect to the appointment via phone call.
The Zoom link for your appointment will be emailed to you in both the confirmation and reminder emails. If you do not receive these emails, please contact us as soon as possible.
At the time of your appointment, please log in to the meeting. There may be a slight wait depending on volunteer availability. Once a team is available, the Student Director will greet you and then place you into a breakout room where you will meet with the legal team.
The consultation will take approximately 30 minutes. During that time, the volunteers will do their best to answer your questions, demystify the legal process, and help get you to the next stage of your process. If you need additional support, you may be given referrals to other legal agencies or given the opportunity to make another appointment with PBI.
How do I request an online consultation?
The Pro Bono Initiative offers extremely limited online appointments each month. If you need an online appointment, please contact probono@law.utah.edu to request an appointment.
I want an attorney to represent me. Is this the right resource for me?
Unfortunately, no. PBI does not provide direct legal representation, and our attorneys cannot represent you in court. We provide only 30-minute legal advice sessions. If you’re interested in full representation, our volunteers can discuss your options with you and then make referrals to low or pro bono attorneys.
Can I bring someone with me to my appointment?
You are welcome to bring someone with you (including service or emotional support animals). Please note that privacy and confidentiality cannot be guaranteed when someone joins your appointment. If your guest is disruptive, they may be asked to return to the waiting area while you finish the appointment.
Can I bring my children with me to my appointment?
Yes! Your children are welcome. We have coloring books and crayons at in-person programs.
I don’t speak English well. Do you provide interpreters?
We can provide consultations in Spanish or English. If you speak another language, please let us know in advance and we will do our best to accommodate.