Skip to Main Content
Need help understanding your rights as an LGBTQ+ person or someone living with HIV? Visit our virtual Help Desk.
Help Desk
There is no one LGBTQ+ or HIV+ experience in America. That’s why Lambda Legal’s Help Desk is here to provide the resources you need.
Contact the Help Desk
Lambda Legal’s Help Desk cannot provide legal advice, and your communication to our Help Desk does not establish an attorney-client relationship.
The Help Desk is not able to assist with emergencies nor time-sensitive requests for legal assistance. Additionally, as we are not a crisis hotline, if you need help finding such support we have list of LGBTQ+ focused hotlines listed below.
Lambda Legal’s Help desk is a resource for the community we serve in providing general legal information and resources relating to discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, and HIV status.
Please note: We are unable to take walk-ins.
Contact us
Is this an emergency?
The Lambda Legal Help Desk is not able to assist with emergencies or immediate requests for legal assistance. Please contact a crisis hotline or any legal service provider that is equipped to provide emergency assistance—you’ll find contact information for several of our partner organizations here. Keep in mind these lines are not branches of Lambda Legal and are instead resources for crisis intervention.
general
LGBT+ National Hotline
www.LGBThotline.org
888-843-4564
learn more
youth
LGBT National Youth Talkline
www.LGBThotline.org/youth-talkline
800.246.7743
learn more
seniors
LGBT National Senior Hotline
www.LGBThotline.org/senior-hotline
888.234.7243
learn more
Transgender, non-binary, and gender-questioning people
Trans Lifeline
https://www.translifeline.org/hotline
877.565.8860
learn more
Contact the Help Desk
Please share the information you are comfortable providing so that Lambda Legal can evaluate your request and determine how we may be able to assist you. Information shared with the Help Desk is treated as confidential within Lambda Legal and is accessible only to appropriate personnel supporting the review and response process.
1
2
3
Tell us about your request for assistance
I am submitting this information on behalf of: (Required) Select an option Myself My Spouse/Partner My Minor Child Other Family Member Friend/Acquaintance A Client or Patient Company/Organization Unknown Individual None of the Above
Name of company/organization/firm (Required)
Information About Affected Individual
If you are not the person directly impacted by the issue you are writing about, please provide the name and location of the person affected.
First Name
Last Name
Location
City
Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah U.S. Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific
State
My Contact Information
For the person submitting this Help Desk inquiry/request, please provide your information.
Preferred First Name (Required)
Preferred Middle Name
Preferred Last Name (Required)
Legal First Name
Legal Middle Name
Legal Last Name
Pronouns (Required) Select an option she/her they/them he/him name only (no pronouns) self-identify (below)
If you don&#039;t see your pronouns, how do you prefer to self-identify?
Email (Required)
Phone
Location (Required)
City of Residence
State of Residence
Zip Code
Preferred Method of Contact (Required) Select an option Email Phone Neither (do not contact)
If we call you at this number, is it OK to say we are from Lambda Legal? Select an option Yes No, please leave a name and number only. No, please do not leave a message.
Demographics
Age Select an option Under 18 18-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 70-79 80+
Specific Age (Required)
Race or Ethnicity
American Indian/Alaskan Native
Asian/Pacific Islander
Black or of African descent
Latinx/Hispanic
Middle Eastern/North African
White/Caucasian
Decline to State
Are you an enrolled member of a tribe? Select an option Yes No
If yes, which one(s)?
Sexual Orientation Select an option Asexual Bisexual Gay Heterosexual Lesbian Pansexual Queer Decline to state Prefer to self-identify (below)
Sexual Orientation Self Identify
Gender Identity Select an option Female Nonbinary Male Decline to state Prefer to self-identify (below)
Gender Self-Identity
Do you identify as transgender or a person of transgender experience? Select an option Yes No Decline to state
Income Level (as an individual) Select an option $0 - 20,999 $21,000 - 59,999 $60,000 - 100,000 over $100,000 Decline to state
How did you hear about the Help Desk at Lambda Legal? Select an option Internet/Social Media Friend/Family Healthcare Professional Government Agency Lambda Legal Employee/Event LGBTQ+ Organization/Center HIV Service/Advocacy Organization Other
Details About Your Inquiry/Request
Reason for Reaching Out Select an option Share My Story Legal Information/Resources Other
Legal Issue (Required)
Relationship separation/divorce
Child custody dispute
Employment discrimination
Identity documents and records
Immigration issues
Denial of insurance coverage
Denial of treatment/service
Mistreatment in school
On behalf of a person who is incarcerated/detained
None of the above/Unsure
Relationship separation/divorce and/or child custody
Your name (please provide your name prior to marriage/domestic partnership, if different)
First
Middle
Last
Full name of your spouse/partner
First
Last
If your spouse had a different last name prior to the relationship/marriage, please also include their prior last name in parenthesis. For example, "Smith (Jones)"
City/state where your spouse/partner resides
City
Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah U.S. Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific
State
Zipcode
If you and your spouse/partner have jointly-owned real property, please provide the city/state where the property is located.
City
Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah U.S. Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific
State
Zipcode
Name and ages of children, if any involved? Full Name
Age
Add Remove
Does your spouse/partner have an attorney? If so, please provide their attorney’s name and phone number. Full Name
Phone Number
Add Remove
Please Note: If you have an attorney, you will be asked to provide the information below.
Employment discrimination
Employment Issue
Refusal to Hire
Discipline/Suspension
Harassment/Hostile Work Environment
Unfair Treatment at Work
Denied Promotion
Termination of Employment
Other Terms of Employment (unequal pay, benefits, etc.)
Retaliation (action that occurred after/because you complained, participated as witness)
None of the above/Other Issue Not Listed
What is the name of your employer/company? (Required)
How long were/have you been employed? Select an option Less than 90 days 91 days - 1 year 1 year - 4 years 4 years - 10 years More than 10 years Not applicable/Never hired
Approximately how many employees does your employer have? Select an option 1 - 14 15 - 49 50 - 99 100 or more
Where is your employer located?
City
Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah U.S. Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific
State
Basis for discrimination at work? Select one or more
Sexual Orientation
Gender
Gender Identity
Gender Expression
HIV
Other
Other basis for discrimination at work
Are you still employed with the employer/company? Select an option Yes No, I was terminated No, I resigned Not applicable (They refused to hire me.)
When was your date of separation?
MM slash DD slash YYYY
Have you filed a charge with the EEOC and/or your local Fair Employment Practices Agency? If so, please list your charge/complaint number.
Identity documents and records
Identity Document and Records Issue (select all that apply)
Birth Certificate
Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA)
Court Petition
Credit Agency
Death Record
Education Record(s)
Identity Theft
Marriage Certificate
Passport
Professional License(s)
Property Record(s)
Sealing Records
State ID/Drivers License
Social Security
Other/Not Listed
Identify the state of issuance for certain documents/records. For issues involving a birth certificate, death record, marriage certificate, professional license, and/or property record.
Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah U.S. Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific
State of Issuance
What information do you seek to correct? Select an option Both Name and Gender Name Only Gender Only Neither/Not Applicable
Immigration issue
I am dealing with the following issue Select an option Asylum Detention Post-Conviction Relief Visa Petitions Other
Other immigration issue
Denial of insurance coverage
What type of insurance coverage are you seeking? Select an option Health Life Long-term Disability Other
Other insurance coverage
The insurance is provided by Select an option My Employer Medicare Medicaid Individual Plan/Exchange
Name of Insurance Company
Were you denied coverage? Select an option Yes No
When were you given the denial of coverage letter?
MM slash DD slash YYYY
Briefly, what was the reason given for denial?
You may elaborate and provide a narrative of what occurred below.
Have you initiated the internal appeals process established by the insurance provider? Select an option Yes No
Please list the date when you filed the appeals
MM slash DD slash YYYY
What is the status of the appeal?
Denial of service or treatment
Generally speaking, a place of public accommodation includes most (but not all) businesses or buildings that are open to (or offer services to) the general public.
Public Accommodations Issue Select the choice that best describes your issue. Items in parenthesis are examples only.
Select an option Wedding Service (Catering, Officiant, Photographer, Venue) Entertainment and Leisure (Event, Library, Museum, Recreation, Theater) Government-owned/operated facilities, services, and buildings Housing and Home Service (Leasing/Rental, Real Estate, Plumber/Electrician) Lodging (Air B&B, Hotel/Motel, Shelter) Medical Facility/Health Service (Doctor&#039;s Office, Hospital, Pharmacy) Personal Service (Salon, Gym, Daycare) Professional Service (Accounting, Legal, Tax) Restaurants/Food Service (Bar, Dining, Grocery) Retail Store, Shop, and Mall Transportation/Transit Service (Airlines, Bus, Rideshare, Taxi, Train) Other/None of the Above
What is the name of the service provider? (Required) Enter the provider name only (no description). Maximum 100 characters.
Where did the denial of service(s) occur?
City
Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah U.S. Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific
State
When did the denial of service(s) occur?
MM slash DD slash YYYY
Briefly, what was the reason given for denial of service?
You may elaborate and provide a narrative of what occurred below.
Mistreatment in school
School Issue (select all that apply)
Admissions
Curriculum or Books
Bullying/Harassment
Dress or Appearance Codes
Education Records/IT Systems
Employment/Work Study Program
Forced Outing
Freedom of Expression (Protest, Pride Flags, Etc.)
Gender Sexuality Alliance (GSA)
Internet Access to LGBTQ+ Resources
Names/Pronouns
Restrooms/Other School Facilities
Sports/Athletics
Student Activities (Dances, Proms, Trips, Other Events)
Other Issue Not Listed
Reporting Party: I am... Select an option The Student Parent/Guardian of the Student School Employee/Official Classmate/Friend Other
What is the student’s grade? Select an option Preschool: Pre-K Elementary School: Grades K-5 Middle School: Grades 6-8 High School: Grades 9-12 Higher Education (see note below) Trade/Technical/Vocational School Other
Note: Higher education includes colleges and universities, as well as professional schools, teacher-training schools, junior colleges, and institutes of technology.
What is the name of the school involved? (Required)
Is this a public, charter, or private school? Select an option Public school Charter school Faith-based private school Private school (secular)
On behalf of a person who is incarcerated/detained
Type of Facility? Select an option City/County Jail State Prison Federal Bureau of Prisons Immigration Detention
What is the name of the detention facility?
What is the city state where the facility is located?
City
Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah U.S. Virgin Islands Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific
State
What is the individual’s identification number with the facility?
Additional Details
Tell us more about your situation (4000 character limit): (Required)
Attorney Information
Do you currently have an attorney representing you? If so, please provide their contact information.
Attorney&#039;s First Name
Attorney&#039;s Last Name
Firm or Law Office Name
Attorney&#039;s Phone
Attorney&#039;s Email
Disclaimer and Notice
Lambda Legal is an organization with limited resources, and we cannot promise you that the information you provide will lead to any specific action on Lambda Legal’s part.
All legal claims have deadlines. For some civil rights violations, you may be required to file a notice or pursue options with a government agency before you can file a lawsuit in court. If you do not comply with time deadlines or notice requirements, you could be legally prevented from pursuing your claim in court. Contacting Lambda Legal for legal assistance does not stop these deadlines or eliminate the need to file notices. If you have an urgent need or must meet a deadline, contact a private attorney, your local public defender, or your state’s bar association. DO NOT WAIT for a response from Lambda Legal.
Nothing on this website should be considered legal advice. Contacting Lambda Legal for legal assistance, including the completion of this form, does not create an attorney-client relationship. Lambda Legal is not your lawyer.
Please check this box to indicate that the information you have provided is true and correct; that you understand that, by accepting this form, Lambda Legal is not agreeing to represent you; and that you understand that Lambda Legal is not responsible for ensuring that any statute of limitations requirement or other deadline is met in your case.
AGREEMENT (Required) YES, I UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
CAPTCHA
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
By providing a telephone number and submitting the form you consent to us contacting you by SMS text message. Message and data rates may apply. You may at any time reply STOP to opt out of further messaging.
Lambda Legal can’t do this work without your support.
Your gift today keeps Lambda Legal&#039;s lawyers in courtrooms across the country fighting to strike down these morally wrong and legally unconstitutional laws, and we need your support now more than ever.
This link leads off site $25
This link leads off site $50
This link leads off site $125
This link leads off site $500
This link leads off site Other
Thank you for your submission
Thank you for playing a leading role in an organization whose unstoppable future is inseparable from the movement for LGBTQ+ rights and everyone living with HIV!
A member of our team will be in touch with you shortly.
Go back to form page
Close