© Superior Court of Arizona in Maricopa County Page 1 of 6 CVNCA10p 091426
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Law Library Resource Center
Procedures: How to file for a change of name for an adult with no minor
children
Step 1: Complete the forms in the packet. These forms are the “Original Set.”
• Civil Cover Sheet. Check box #152 for “Change of Name” on page 2.
• Application for Change of Name for an Adult. Wait to sign it until you are in
front of the Deputy Clerk or a Notary.
• Order Changing Name of an Adult. Complete the proposed Order with the
information from your Application. Order must be typed. Do not date or sign the
order. Do not file the order – you will submit it before your Court hearing.
Step 2: Copy:
• Application (One (1) original and two (2) copies). Make an additional copy for
each additional interested party involved.
Step 3: File the papers.
In person:
Go to the Clerk of Superior Court to file your papers: The Court is open from
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. You should go to the Court
at least two hours before it closes. You may file your Court papers at one of
the following Superior Court locations:
Central Court Building Southeast Court Facility
201 West Jefferson, 1st floor 222 East Javelina Avenue, 1st floor
Phoenix, AZ 85003 Mesa, AZ 85210
Northwest Court Facility Northeast Regional Court Center
14264 West Tierra Buena Lane 18380 North 40th Street
Surprise, AZ 85374 Phoenix, AZ 85032
Hand the original and all copies to the Clerk, along with the filing fee. Do
not file the Order.
eFiling (online):
For information on eFiling, see the Clerk of Superior Court’s website at
https://www.clerkofcourt.maricopa.gov/services/efiling-information.
A list of current fees is available on the Clerk of Superior Court’s website. If you
cannot afford the filing fee and/or the fee for having the papers served by the Sheriff
or by publication, you may request a deferral (payment plan) when you file your
© Superior Court of Arizona in Maricopa County Page 2 of 6 CVNCA10p 091426
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
papers with the Clerk of Superior Court. Deferral Applications are available at no
charge from the Law Library Resource Center.
Step 4: Schedule your hearing with Civil Court Administration.
*All hearings will occur virtually unless otherwise ordered by the Court.*
At least four business days after you filed your Application, contact Civil Court
Administration at 602-506-1497 to get a hearing. When you call, staff will provide
you with the date, time, and virtual hearing link information, as well as the Judicial
Officer’s name. Staff are available Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Civil Court Administration will email a Notice of Hearing to you. You will need to
send a copy of the Notice of Hearing to each interested party (if any).
Step 5: Notify all interested parties who are concerned with or affected by your name
change. Examples of interested parties may include:
• Your spouse
• Your ex-spouse
• The other parent of your minor child
• Creditors
• Prosecutor’s Office (if you have pending charges or convictions)*
You must provide interested parties with copies of your Clerk-stamped Application
for Change of Name and Notice of Hearing and provide proof to the Court. Make the
appropriate number of sets of copies in your case.
* If you have any pending charges or convictions for a felony, conviction of any
offense in any State for which you were required to register as a sex offender, or any
crime involving false statements or misrepresentations about your identity in state or
federal court, you must provide notice to any prosecutor’s office that charged you
with a crime. To do this, you may have them waive formal service or serve the copies
via certified mail/restricted delivery with return receipt requested, as mentioned
below.
How to notify the parties:
• Marital Waiver of Notice: If you are married and your spouse agrees to your name
change, your spouse may sign a Marital Waiver of Notice (included in this
packet). This Marital Waiver of Notice is proof of notice. Have the Marital
Waiver of Notice notarized and file it with the Clerk of Superior Court.
• Notify by certified mail/restricted delivery (return receipt requested). This must
be done at least 30 days before the hearing. Proof of notice is the card returned to
you from the post office showing delivery. The person who should receive notice
must sign the return receipt card. Complete the Affidavit of Notice by Certified
Mail form (included in this packet), attach the signed return receipt card, and file
© Superior Court of Arizona in Maricopa County Page 3 of 6 CVNCA10p 091426
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
with the Clerk of Superior Court or email it to
civilhearings@jbazmc.maricopa.gov.
• If the Court orders another form of service, refer to the Civil “Service” packet
available at the Law Library Resource Center or on the Court’s website.
Step 6: Service of the Application.
This Step only applies to those Applicants who have been convicted of an offense in
any State for which they were required to register as a sex offender. If this DOES
NOT apply to you, skip to Step 7. If this does apply to you, continue following this
step.
If you were convicted and required to register in ARIZONA:
In addition to the notice requirements listed above, you are required to serve a copy
of your Application on:
• the prosecuting agency of the jurisdiction in which you were convicted.
For more information on Service within Arizona, see Rule 4.1 of the Arizona Rules
of Civil Procedure and the Civil Service packet which can be found at
https://superiorcourt.maricopa.gov/llrc/civil_cvc2/
If you were convicted and required to register in ANOTHER STATE:
In addition to the notice requirements listed above, you are required to serve a copy
of your Application on:
• The prosecuting agency of the jurisdiction in which you were convicted,
AND
• The Maricopa County Attorney.
Maricopa County Attorney’s Office address is:
Maricopa County Attorney’s Office
225 West Madison Street
Phoenix, Arizona 85003
For more information on Service outside Arizona, see Rule 4.2 of the Arizona Rules
of Civil Procedure and the Civil Service packet which can be found at: Forms to
Serve Notice of a Civil Complaint
Step 7: Prepare for your hearing.
At least one (1) week before your hearing, provide the Court your documents. You
have two options:
1) Email your documents in PDF format to
civilhearings@jbazmc.maricopa.gov
OR
© Superior Court of Arizona in Maricopa County Page 4 of 6 CVNCA10p 091426
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
2) Drop off your documents in person. There is a bin or file folder titled Civil
Court Administration at each of the locations below.
Central Court Building Southeast Court Facility
201 West Jefferson 222 East Javelina Avenue
Phoenix, AZ 85003 Mesa, AZ 85210
(3rd floor, East Court Building) (1st floor, Suite 1350)
Northwest Court Facility Northeast Regional Court Center
14264 West Tierra Buena Lane 18380 North 40th Street
Surprise, AZ 85374 Phoenix, AZ 85032
(Window 8, Clerk of Court) (Main Information Desk)
Failure to provide the required documents may result in your hearing being
vacated. The Court will NOT accept the documents on the date of the
hearing.
A. Complete and attach the Order. Complete the name(s) of the Applicant and
your case number. Do not date or sign the Order. The signature line is for the
Judicial Officer to sign when the Order is complete.
B. Attach copies of the following:
• Photo identification for the person who filed the Application.
• A Clerk-stamped copy of all filed documents.
• Proof of Notice as described in Step 5.
• Your Divorce Decree (if applicable).
• Prior Name Change Orders (if applicable).
• Proof of naturalization or resident alien status (if applicable).
• Orders of Protection and/or Injunctions against Harassment still in effect
(if applicable).
C. If you are not a United States citizen, your passport or proof of immigration
status. Keep a copy of any documents you submit to the Court for your records.
♦ If you are asking to change a birth certificate, you must provide a certified copy of
the current government-issued birth certificate. The Court will not change a birth
certificate without first seeing a copy.
♦ Hospital-issued birth certificates generally will not satisfy Court requirements. The
Court requires government-issued birth certificates.
D. Felony cases: For any prior or current felony cases where you were or are a
defendant, attach PDF or DIGITAL copies of the following:
• Direct complaint, indictment and/or information,
• Plea Agreement,
© Superior Court of Arizona in Maricopa County Page 5 of 6 CVNCA10p 091426
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
• Pre-sentence report, sentence of probation and/or imprisonment,
• Orders of discharge of probation,
• Criminal restitution orders, and
• Conditions of release.
E. The Judicial Clerk will give you a Judge-signed copy of the Court Order if
the Judge orders a name change.
Step 8: Attend the hearing. Who should attend?
• The Applicant must be present at the hearing.
• Adults who request a name change must attend the hearing.
Step 9: After the hearing. If the Judge orders a name change to your birth certificate:
• First, you must obtain a certified copy of your Court Order.
o If your hearing was completed in-person, within 48 hours of the judge
signing the order, to obtain a certified copy, you must present your judge-
signed order with the red “Copy for Certification” stamp applied at any
Clerk of Court File Counter location, along with the required certification
fee.
o If your hearing was completed virtually, or if 48 hours have passed since the
order was signed, you can obtain a certified copy by visiting any Clerk of
Court Regional File Counter location or, if downtown, the Clerk of Court
Customer Service Center at 601 W. Jackson Street, Phoenix.
o A list of current fees is available on the Clerk of Superior Court’s website.
• Present the certified copy of the Court Order to Vital Records. A fee is required
for a change to any birth certificate. The vital records office you present it to will
depend on the year in which your birth certificate was issued.
Maricopa County Office of Vital Registration (only for birth certificates issued
1997 or later)
The Maricopa County Office of Vital Registration has several locations. Their
hours of operation are 8:00 A.M. to 4:30 P.M., Monday through Friday. Free
parking is available. You may also call them at 602-506-6805 or check their
website for locations and other current information:
https://www.maricopa.gov/1331/Birth-Certificates.
OR
Bureau of Vital Records for the State of Arizona (only for birth certificates issued
prior to 1997)
© Superior Court of Arizona in Maricopa County Page 6 of 6 CVNCA10p 091426
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
The Bureau of Vital Records office is only available for mail-in service and some
services by appointment. Please call them at 602-364-1300 or check their website
for appointment and other current information:
https://www.azdhs.gov/licensing/vital-records/index.php.
Step 10: This Step only applies to those Applicants who have been convicted of an offense in
any State for which they were required to register as a sex offender.
After the hearing. You may be ordered to register pursuant to A.R.S. § 13-3821 under
your new name and use your prior name as an alias and to provide a copy of the order
to Maricopa County Sheriff's Office.