Public Dissemination
Name Change Criminal Records Check
DISS-0001-2024
01/2024 - BCR
Instructions
1. Complete this Name Change Criminal Records Check form. Please provide ALL requested information.
2. Complete the attached Affidavit and have it notarized by a commissioned Notary Public (S.C. Code Ann. § 15-49-20).
3. Submit a set of applicant fingerprints on a Blue Fingerprint Card and ensure that the card is filled out completely.
* Fingerprints can be taken at a local law enforcement agency or through a commercial business, such as IdentoGo. Know that there
may be an additional charge for obtaining fingerprints, which would be paid to the organization taking the prints.
4. Attach a self-addressed, postage-paid envelope for SLED to use to return the records check.
5. Pay the required twenty-five dollar ($25.00) fee to process a Name Change criminal history request. Payment must be made by
business check (S.C. Businesses Only), certified check, cashier’s check, or money order for exactly $25.00, made payable to SLED.
* Cash and personal checks are not accepted.
6. Mail all items to: South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, Attn: Records, P.O. Box 21398, Columbia, South Carolina 29221
Failure to provide any of the above items will result in delays or an inability to process this request.
Current Legal Name:
Last First Middle Maiden or Suffix (Sr., Jr.)
Date of Birth: Social Security Number:
MM/DD/YYYY ###-##-####
Any other names used (Include all maiden and nicknames):
Request name changed to:
Last First Middle
SLED USE ONLY
Records checks are performed using submitted fingerprints and are only searched on arrests made by South Carolina state and
local law enforcement agencies. If an arrest record is located for prints, it will be indicated below and attached to the return.
CRIMINAL RECORDS SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY SLED SEAL
Initial NO ARREST RECORD Initial REGISTERED
Initial ARREST RECORD Initial NOT REGISTERED
Initial NOT REGISTERED, BUT REQUIRED
Form not valid without a raised SLED seal.
Public Dissemination
Name Change Criminal Records Check
DISS-0001-2024
01/2024 - BCR
State of South Carolina )
AFFIDAVIT)
County of )
I am making a request for a background check and screening statement from the South Carolina Law Enforcement
Division. I certify that I have never been convicted of a crime under a name other than the name(s):
, ,
, ,
I have also used the following names but have never been arrested under them:
, ,
, ,
I understand that a person who knowingly and willfully falsifies this affidavit is subject to criminal penalties, including
fines and imprisonment, pursuant to S.C. Code Ann. § 15-49-20 and other applicable laws.
Affiant Signature
Sworn to and subscribed before me
this day of ,
Notary Public for South Carolina
My Commision expires: