Skip to main content
A birth certificate is an official recording of a birth that occurred in the state of Georgia. It is used for a number of reasons including but not limited to:
establishing one’s identity
tax purposes
enrolling in school
applying for a driver’s license
obtaining health insurance
At the State Office of Vital Records, birth records are available from January 1919 to the present . For records older than 1919, please contact the county in which the birth occurred or the Georgia Archives.
How do you request a certified copy of a birth certificate?
You may request a certified copy of a birth certificate from your local county office or the State Office of Vital Records. This request can be made in person or by mail. You can also request certified copies online using one of our approved third-party vendors (GO Certificates, ROVER, and Vital Chek).
Request for Search of Birth (Form 3918)
Certificate Corrections
There are two types of corrections performed at the State Office of Vital Records.
Current Year Corrections (CYC): Current year corrections are defined as corrections made to the certificate within one year of the child’s birthday. There is no charge for current year corrections.
Affidavit
for Current Year Correction
(PDF, 103.86 KB)
General Amendments: A general amendment is defined as a change that is made to a certificate after 1 year of age. Amendments can occur due to a legal name change, adoption, legitimation, adding of a spouse and/or paternity acknowledgement.
Affidavit
for Amendment (Form 3977)
(PDF, 1.11 MB)
Certificate
of Adoption (Form 3927)
(PDF, 121.67 KB)
Application
for an Amended Certificate of Birth by Legitimation (Form 3929)
(PDF, 594.91 KB)
Affidavit
for Adding a Spouse
(PDF, 99.08 KB)
Paternity
Acknowledgement (Form 3940)
(PDF, 922.7 KB)
Court
Ordered Delayed Certificate of Birth Form (PDF)
(PDF, 102.17 KB)
Delayed
Certificate of Birth Form (PDF)
(PDF, 140.78 KB)
Out
of Institution Birth Packet (PDF)
(PDF, 1003.08 KB)
Rescission Statement Form (PDF)
Birth Certificates are only issued to applicants having a direct and tangible interest to the registrant, i.e. immediate family members, and/or legal representatives of the family.
O.C.G.A. 31-10-26 (2010)
Birth and Death Certificate Entitlement Requirements
Relationship ID Requirement
Self Valid Photo Government Issued Identification (Please note that we do not accept electronic or digital forms of identification. A valid physical government issued photo ID is required for verification purposes.)
Parent Valid Photo Identification, must be listed as the parent on the certificate
Legal Guardian Certified copy of the Court Order establishing guardianship
Grandparent Birth certificate of the registrant’s parent (proof of relationship)
Adult Child/Adult Sibling Birth certificate of the requestor, listing one of the same parents, and his or her valid government issued photo identification which includes signature
Spouse Marriage certificate (copy), photocopy of the spouse’s signature, and a notarized letter from the spouse giving permission
Attorney Notarized letter on letterhead signed by the attorney (must represent an immediate family member), provide bar number indicating the reason for the request and whom they represent. Provide supporting documentation. In the event of an adoption, provide a notarized release from the biological mother.
SB 100 - Andee's Law (Pre-Adoption) Birth Certificate
Effective July 1, 2025 , Senate Bill 100, also known as “Andee’s Law,” grants individuals who are 18 years of age or older, and born in the State of Georgia, the right to request and obtain an uncertified copy of their original birth certificate.
FAQs for
Obtaining A Copy of Your Original (Pre-Adoption) Birth Certificate
(PDF, 548.51 KB)
Pre-Adoption Birth Certificate Requirements
Relationship with Deceased Adoptee ID & Documentation Requirements
Direct Line Descendant (child, grandchild, great grandchild of the adoptee, etc.) Valid government issued photo identification, photocopy of the adoptee’s death certificate, documentation proving direct line descent (such as birth, and death records, etc.)
Child of Adoptee Valid government issued photo identification, photocopy of the adoptee’s death certificate, photocopy of the applicant’s birth certificate showing the adoptee as the parent.
Direct line descendant with name changes Valid government issued photo identification, photocopy of the adoptee’s death certificate, proof of relationship as outlined above, additional documentation for any name changes (marriage records, name change orders, or other official records)
Sibling of deceased adoptee Valid government issued photo identification with signature, photocopy of the adoptee’s death certificate, copy of the applicant’s birth certificate listing one or both of the same parents as the adoptee.
Parent of the deceased adoptee Valid government issued phot identification with signature, photocopy of the adoptee’s death certificate, copy of the adoptees birth certificate listing the parents’ name.
Note: Newborn birth certificates are not automatically mailed to parents. Information gathered in the hospital is solely for the purposes of registering the child’s birth. You must request the certificate online or at a vital records office.
For amendments to vital records that require a certified court order, the original court order or certified copy of the original order with court seal, will remain on file at the State Office of Vital Records. The order will become a part of a sealed file, such file shall not be subject to inspection, except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or by the State Registrar.
For emergency or urgent travel requests, visit your nearest vital records office . Georgia Vital Records does not participate in same-day cruise rush requests.
Did you find what you were looking for on this page?
Extra feedback
Send feedback