Request to Modify an Adult’s Birth Record
(Age 18 years old and above)
This form is used to amend the birth record of an adult. An adult is an individual who is 18 years of age or older. This form cannot be used to amend
an individual’s birth record due to an adoption or to amend the individual’s birth record due to change of parentage (including adding, removing or
replacing a parent on the birth record). Upon update to this record, an updated birth certificate will be issued if requested.
PART 1: CONTACT INFORMATION
Type or print in ink
HD002292 REV 04/21
ERASURES, CROSS-OUTS OR ANY OTHER ALTERATIONS ARE UNACCEPTABLE.
My current legal name: (First) (Middle) (Last) (Suffix)
Street: Email address:
City: Zip code:State: Daytime phone:
I am the individual listed on this record and am 18 years of age or older.
I am requesting this modification on behalf of the individual due to the following
reason:
My relationship to the individual is:
Intended use of birth certificate:
International legal purposeStandard identification or passport Other: (Please specify other reason.)
PART 2: ACCEPTABLE FORMS OF IDENTIFICATION
I have included a legible photocopy of the following:
A valid driver’s license or other government-issued photo ID. If applying by mail, the address on my ID matches the mailing address listed in
Part 1. Expired IDs cannot be accepted.
I do not have a valid government-issued photo ID. Therefore, I have provided different two current documents that verify my name and
current address (such as a utility bill, pay stub, bank statement, car registration or lease/rental agreement) as listed in Part 1.
See certificates.health.pa.gov for further information.
PART 3: FEES FOR THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE Quantity Required
Total:
Certificate cost: $20.00
Quantity: XMake check or money order payable to
“VITAL RECORDS.”
Request for Waiver of Fee:
Armed forces member’s name:
Service number:
Rank and branch of service:
Member of the U.S. armed forces – I am or my current legal spouse (includes widow/widower if not remarried) is in active service or was
honorably discharged from service.
I am returning the attached incorrect birth certificate that I received in the last 45 days and am requesting a free replacement after the
birth record is modified.
INTERNAL USE ONLY
Order #:
Date payment processed:
Credit Card □
Check or money order #:
Payment Amount $
Cashier #:
PART 4: BIRTH RECORD TO BE AMENDED
PART 5: INFORMATION TO BE MODIFIED
Only enter information into Part 5 that you are requesting be modified on this birth record.
SUBJECT’S CURRENT NAME ON BIRTH RECORD
SEX
Male Female
DATE OF BIRTH STATE FILE NUMBER (listed on the birth certificate)
(First) (Middle) (Last) (Suffix)
SUBJECT’S NAME
SEX
Male Female
GENDER DESIGNATION (if different than sex value)
Male Female
DATE OF BIRTH TIME OF BIRTH
BIRTHPLACE
PARENT’S INFORMATION
□ Mother
□ Father
□ Parent
PARENT’S INFORMATION
□ Mother
□ Father
□ Parent
(Place of birth – state or foreign country) (Date of birth)
(Place of birth – state or foreign country) (Date of birth)
(First) (Middle) (Last) (Suffix)
(Suffix)(First name) (Middle name) (Last name prior to first marriage)
(Suffix)(First name) (Middle name) (Last name prior to first marriage)
(County) (City/borough/township) (Hospital)
I am a Power-of-Attorney (POA) for this individual. Attached is a photocopy of the POA document. The document must meet all legal
requirements for the state in which the POA was executed.
I am the legal guardian for this individual. Attached is a photocopy of the guardianship document.
YOU MUST SIGN PART 6 IN FRONT OF A NOTARY.
By my signature below, I state I am the person whom I represent myself
to be herein, and I affirm the information within this form is complete
and accurate and made subject to the penalties of 18 Pa.C.S. §4904
relating unsworn falsification to authorities. In addition, I acknowledge
that misstating my identity or assuming the identity of another person
may subject me to misdemeanor or felony criminal penalties for identity
theft pursuant to 18 Pa.C.S. §4120 or other sections of the Pennsylvania
Crimes Code.
(Signature of individual listed in Part 1) (Date)
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me:
(Signature of notary)
(Date)
Printed name of individual appearing before the notary public:
SEAL
PART 6: SIGNATURES AND NOTARIZED STATEMENT
Amendment #:
For DOH use onlyRequest to Modify an Adult’s Birth Record
Page 2 of 3
I am the individual listed on this record and am 18 years of age or older.
PART 7: DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE
Based on the type of amendment you are requesting to this birth record, you must provide documentary evidence to substantiate your request.
Please review the list below and provide applicable documentation based on the type of modification you are requesting.
See certificates.health.pa.gov for further information.
If you are requesting a correction to the spelling of the subject’s name, provide documentation such as a valid government-issued driver’s
license or ID card, government-issued marriage certificate, passport, or Living Numident printout from the Social Security Administration.
If a court authorized amendments to this birth record, provide a certified court order that authorized the change. Changes to the subject’s
name (including the addition of a name) must be supported by a court order that meets or exceeds Pennsylvania’s judicial name change
process. Court orders entered in jurisdictions outside of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania may require additional review.
If you are requesting a change to the subject’s date of birth, time of birth, or place of birth, provide documentation such as a medical
record from the individual’s birth or early childhood, a baptismal certificate issued during childhood, or an early school record that clearly
supports the requested modification.
If you are requesting a gender designation other than the subject’s sex to be displayed on the birth certificate, please submit a letter from
the attending medical physician who is providing the appropriate clinical treatment for gender transition. See certificate.health.pa.gov for
specific requirements regarding the physician’s letter.
If the sex designation was recorded incorrectly on the birth record, provide documentation such as a medical record.
If you are requesting a modification to a parent’s information, the primary documentary evidence shall be the parent’s birth certificate, or
a certified court order that authorized the legal name change for that parent. A photocopy of the parent’s birth certificate is unacceptable.
• If the subject’s parent was born in Pennsylvania, you may provide the parent’s birth certificate or attach a document that lists the
parent’s date of birth, name at birth and county of birth. We will verify that this information matches the birth record on file in our
office. If a birth record for the subject’s parent is not on file with our office, we will request addition documentation.
• If the subject’s parent was born outside of Pennsylvania, you must provide the parent’s birth certificate.
• If the subject’s parent was born outside of the United States, an apostille must be provided with the birth certificate. If the document
is not in the English language, a certified translation must be provided.
MAIL TO: Pa. Department of Health
Bureau of Health Statistics and Registries
ATTN: Birth Registry
555 Walnut St., 6th Floor
Harrisburg, PA 17101-1934
Page 3 of 3
Request to Modify an Adult’s Birth Record