Skip to main content
Birth Records
Order or change a birth certificate and instructions to file a delayed birth certificate
Explore this Section
About Birth Records
Ordering a Birth Certificate
Registries
Change a Birth Certificate
File a Delayed Certificate of Birth
File an Out of Facility Birth or Homebirth Certificate
Processing Times and Fees
Processing Times and Fees
Requests for certified copies of vital events have increased substantially because of the upcoming Real ID requirement for people to obtain a Star Card driver’s license by May 2025. Thank you for your patience during this time.
Timing and fees
Certified copies may be ordered using the Idaho Vital Records Certificate Request form-Birth . Copies of certificates are $16 each. All Vital Records fees may be paid with one check or money order.
Please check your totals carefully. Overpayments of less than $10 are not refunded unless requested in writing. Orders with unsigned payments, unsigned applications, or incomplete copies of identification that do not clearly show the signature and expiration date will not be processed. A letter will be sent asking for the missing information which will double the processing time.
We cannot add rush service to an existing order. If you need the certificate faster than the non-rush time frames stated below, add rush service before submitting your order. If you have already submitted your order, you may choose to submit another rush order for the certificate online. We are unable to cancel unprocessed orders for certificates.
Processing times:
2-3 weeks for certificate orders that notate and pay for express service
3-5 weeks to process standard non-RUSH certificate orders
These time frames apply once a properly completed certificate order is received in our office. They do not include estimated mailing times. Customers who place online orders through vitalchek.com typically receive their certificates faster because there is no physical payment to process and mail time to our office is eliminated.
Processing fees through vitalchek:
VitalChek fee - $10.50 non-refundable fee will apply to all orders
Express (rush) order - Certificate requests - $10 per event ordered
Expedited shipping via UPS - $21 for most delivery areas. To verify availability and fees of expedited shipping to your area, visit vitalchek.com or call 866-628-9244, option 1.
Legal processing times:
3-4 weeks for certificate changes ($0 standard processing fee + applicable legal and certificate fees)
1-2 weeks for certificate changes that notate and pay for express processing ($25 rush + applicable legal and certificate fees)
Requests for legal actions are worked in the order they are received. Legal actions include corrections, paternity actions, court-ordered name changes, adoptions, surrogacy, and delayed certificate filing.
Response time varies depending on the number of requests received, staffing levels, and the complexity of the action being requested.
Vital records fees
See fees for documents and services from the Bureau of Vital Records
See fees