Instructions How to Change the Name of and Adult-rev. 7/2014 Page 1 of 2
Fulton County Superior Court Family Division
HOW TO CHANGE THE NAME OF AN ADULT IN
FULTON COUNTY
Name changes are governed by O.C.G.A. §19-12-1. There are two sets of forms available for name
changes. One set is for adults (i.e., 18 years old or older) who want to change their own name (NAME
CHANGE OF ADULT). The other set is for people who want to change the name of a minor child(ren)
(NAME CHANGE OF A MINOR CHILD OR CHILDREN). Decide which set of forms you need to use and
follow the instructions accordingly. THIS SET OF FORMS IS FOR A NAME CHANGE OF AN ADULT.
YOU MUST HAVE LIVED IN FULTON COUNTY FOR A LEAST SIX MONTHS PRIOR TO FILING THIS
PETITION TO CHANGE THE NAME OF AN ADULT IN FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA.
 STEP 1: Fill out the Petition to Change Name (of an Adult)
 STEP 2: Fill out the Verification form
 STEP 3: Fill out the Domestic Relations Initiation Form
 STEP 4: Fill out the Notice of Petition to Change Name form
 STEP 5: Make a copy of each of the forms
 STEP 6: File the forms with the Clerk of the Superior Court and obtain court date.
 STEP 7: Publish Notice
 STEP 8: Appear on scheduled court date to obtain final ruling.
 STEP 9: Final Decree will be filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court, and a
certified copy(ies) can be obtained at that time (for a nominal fee).
1 Fill out the Petition to Change Name (of an Adult):
A. Write your current name next to the word, “Petitioner:.” You should not fill in
the blank next to “Civil Action File No:” because the clerk will assign your case a
number when you file the Petition, and the clerk will fill that number in for you.
This top part of the form is called the “style” of the case.
B. Paragraph 1: Write your current, full name, your residential address, telephone
number, and the year and place of your birth where indicated.
C. Paragraph 2: Write the complete new name that you want to be changed to. Do
not substitute initials for a full name.
D. Paragraph 3: Briefly explain why you want to change your name where indicated.
E. Sign and date.
2 Fill out the Verification form to go with the Petition:
A. Write your current name next to the word “Petitioner”.
B. Write your current name after the words “My name is”.
C. Where it says: This _______ day of _______, _____, fill in the date, month and
year where indicated.
D. Sign your name. Then Write your name on the following line, and fill in your
address and telephone number.
Instructions How to Change the Name of and Adult-rev. 7/2014 Page 2 of 2
Fulton County Superior Court Family Division
E. You will need to have a notary notarize the verification form for you.
3 Fill out the Notice of Petition to Change Name form as follows:
A. Write your current name next to the word “Petitioner”.
B. Write your current name.
C. Write the date that you filed the Petition.
D. Write the month and year that you filed the Petition.
E. Write your current name.
F. Write your new name (the name that you want the court to change your name to).
Write your full name (not initials) including any middle names.
G. Write the date that you are signing this document (it may be the same date that
you file it).
H. Write the month and year that you are signing this document.
I. Then sign your name and Write your name, address, and telephone number.
4 Make one copy of each of the forms. You may want to keep a copy for your records.
5 Publishing Notice: This notice (Notice of Petition to Change Name form) must be
published once a week for four weeks in the Fulton County Daily Report. There is a fee
for publication. Check with the Clerk of Superior Court for the amount of the fee. Be sure
to include your name and address so that the Fulton County Daily Report can mail you
proof that the notice was published.
6 File the forms you just filled out. To begin the process, the Petition, the Verification,
and the Notice of Petition to Change Name forms must be filed in the clerk’s office in the
county of the Petitioner’s residence. There is a filing fee. Please check with the clerk’s
office for the amount of the fee and follow the clerk’s instructions for filing or efiling.
7 Obtaining your Final Decree. A court date will be assigned at the time of filing. The
notice must have been published once a week for four (4) weeks prior to the assigned
court date. If for any reason this does not happen, the court date may be reset to a later
date. Be sure you appear at ALL scheduled court date(s). Bring the following items to
your court date:
▪ Photo Identification
▪ Publisher’s Affidavit
8. Final Decree. A certified copy of the final decree can be obtained from the Clerk of the
Superior court. This is proof that your name has officially changed.