Skip to main content
Update Name, Address or Other Info on your Maryland Driver&#039;s License
Skip sidebar navigation
Rules to Know
If your name has changed , update it with the Social Security Administration (SSA) before visiting the MVA.
Maryland law requires you to report a change of address within 30 days of moving.
Some changes can be done online. Others may require a visit to an MVA office.
You must notify the Maryland MVA if your name, address, or other personal information on your driver's license or ID card changes. Keeping your records up to date ensures the MVA can reach you about important notices.
Name changes
Update your name with the Social Security Administration
Update your name with the Social Security Administration at least 72 hours before your MVA appointment .
Visit the SSA's website​ for more information.
SSA Website
Gather your documents
You'll need:
Current Maryland driver’s license.
Original or certified document of your legal name change (Photocopies are not accepted), such as: Marriage certificate, or
Divorce decree, or
Court order, or
Passport with your new name
Proof of your SSA name change, if possible
For a common law name change , you must present a Social Security Card and two additional acceptable documents in the common name you are currently using. The two (2) additional documents (from the list below) must have the name as it is shown on the Social Security card.
Tax records
Selective Service card or records
Voter registration card or records
Passport
A form of identification issued by a government unit that contains a photograph of the applicant
Baptismal certificate
Banking records
Other proof of age and identity that is satisfactory to the MVA
Make an appointment
You must update your name in person . Make an appointment online and visit an MVA branch office to complete your name change.
Click on the buttons below for non-CDL appointments or schedule a CDL correction appointment.
Schedule DL (non-CDL) correction appointment
Schedule ID correction appointment
Your appointment & next steps
Your documents will be reviewed and new photograph taken, if needed.
There is a fee for a corrected license or ID that shows your new name. Bring appropriate payment. See MVA fees and payment options.
Your new license will be mailed to you.
Check my order status
View fees & payment options
Address changes
You can change your address:
Online with your myMVA account
In-person at an MVA self-service kiosk
What you'll need
To change your address online or at a self-service kiosk, you'll need:
Your driver’s license or ID card number If you have lost your license or ID, find your details online through your myMVA account or contact us.
Your date of birth
Your MVA PIN or other login info
What to expect
The MVA will send a Change of Address card to your new address. Carry this card with your license or ID.
If you'd like a new Driver's License or ID card, you can order one. Your new license will be mailed to you within 7 to 10 business days.
Fees
There is no fee for just updating your address
If you'd like a new driver’s license or ID card with your updated address you'll need to pay a replacement fee. See MVA fees and payment options .
Change address
Replace license/ID with myMVA
Change address with myMVA
Gender designation changes
You may update the gender marker on your Maryland driver’s license or identification card.
No required documentation to change your gender
You need an appointment to make a gender change.
Gender selection options: M (male)
F (female)
X (unspecified or other)
What to expect
You'll need to take a new photograph and pay the card replacement fee. (See MVA fees and payment options .)
If you'd like to change your name or other details, please follow the directions for those on this page.
Once approved, your new license will be mailed to you within 7 to 10 business days.
Name change
Schedule DL correction appointment (non-CDL)
Schedule ID correction appointment
Schedule CDL correction appointment
Height, weight & other designation changes
Height and weight updates : This requires an appointment at an MVA office.
Veteran status changes: This requires an appointment at an MVA office. Visit the Military Service Members section for information on adding a veteran designation.
Organ donor status: You can update your organ donor status online with your myMVA account .
Frequently asked questions
Update Name, Address, or Other Info FAQ
Can I change my gender designation when I renew my license?
When renewing, if you want to change your gender, respond “yes” when prompted by the customer agent during the process, then make your selection.
The choices will be “M” for male, “F” for female, and “X” for unspecified or other. You will be prompted to certify that the gender selected is your choice.
Does a parent or guardian need to approve my gender choice if I am under 18?
If a person under 18 years old is applying for a driver’s license, ID card, learner’s permit, or moped operator’s permit, and wants to indicate a gender other than that shown on the birth certificate, the parent or guardian signature is required to approve the choice.
If the parent or guardian does not sign the application, the product will not be issued.
Can I change my gender on myMVA Online Services or MVA Kiosk?
No, you will only be able to change your gender in person at an MVA branch office. You can make a Driver's License/ID Correction appointment online with myMVA.
Can I change the gender designation on my license more than once?
Yes, you can change your gender designation as many times as you need. Keep in mind that a corrected driver's license fee applies each time.
I want to change my gender from what is on my birth certificate. Will I need to get the birth certificate changed first?
No, you will not need to have the gender on your birth certificate changed in order to change the gender on your driver’s license.
If I already changed my name on my passport, do I still need name change documents?
If you have a valid U.S. Passport with your new name, you are not required to present additional name change documents.
How much does it cost to change information on my driver's license or ID?
It depends on the change:
Corrected license or ID (such as a name or gender change): A fee applies. See MVA fees and payment options .
Address change without a new card : No fee. You will be mailed an address card to carry with your license.
Veteran designation change : No fee.
I need to renew my driver's license or ID. Can I update my information when I renew?
Yes. Here's what to know:
Name change : You must renew in person.
Address update or organ donor designation change : You can update these during your renewal.
My driver's license or ID is expired. How do I update my information?
You will need to start a new application for a Maryland's driver's license or ID card. You will need to pass applicable vision, knowledge and driving skills test, and may need to present age, identity, and residency documents.
You can start the application with myMVA online services.
Visit the Get a Maryland Driver's License or ID Card page for more information.
Questions? We can help.
Contact us if you have questions or need more information.
Contact MVA