Skip to main content
Apply for Medicaid
Apply Now
Apply Now Through the HHS Self-Service Portal
Apply Now
Things to Know Before You Apply
List items for Things to Know Before You Apply
What do I need to apply for Medicaid?
You may need to provide some of the following items:
Social Security Numbers (or document numbers for any legal immigrants who need insurance)
Employer and income information for everyone in your family (for example, from paystubs, W-2
forms, or wage and tax statements)
Policy numbers for any current health insurance
Information about any job-related health insurance available to your family
What are the application steps?
Eligibility is determined. Iowa Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) determines whether you are eligible for Medicaid.
Receive your Medicaid eligibility card. About seven days after eligibility is determined, you will receive an Iowa Medicaid eligibility card.
Receive your enrollment packet. About 1–2 weeks after eligibility is determined, you will receive an Iowa Medicaid enrollment packet. It includes: Your assigned Managed Care Organization (MCO) and/or dental plan
The date your choice period ends
Information about your MCO and/or dental plan
A form to change your MCO and/or dental plan, if you choose
Choose a plan, if you want to make a change. You can contact Iowa Medicaid Member Services by phone, fax, email, or mail to choose a different MCO and/or dental plan. You will be notified when your new coverage begins.
Receive confirmation of your coverage. If you change from your initial MCO or dental plan assignment, you will receive a Confirmation of Coverage letter. The letter will include the name of your MCO and/or dental plan and the date your coverage begins.
Receive information and your member ID card. Your MCO and/or dental plan will begin sending you information and your member ID card within seven days of receiving your enrollment information.
Coverage begins. You can begin receiving services through your assigned or selected MCO and/or dental plan.
You can continue to make changes. You have 90 days after the choice period end date listed in your enrollment packet to change your MCO and/or dental plan for any reason. After that, you may be able to change plans for a “good cause,” such as when your provider is not in your plan’s network. You will also have an annual opportunity to change your plan.
Apply Now
List items for Apply for Iowa Medicaid
Apply Online
Apply online through the Iowa HHS Self-Service Portal
Apply online at healthcare.gov
Apply In-Person
Apply in-person at any local Health & Human Services (HHS) office
Apply in-person at a federal qualified health center (FQHC) in Iowa
Apply by Phone
To apply by phone, call 1-855-889-7985
Apply by Mail
Mail your completed application (467.22 KB).pdf (467.22 KB) .pdf to:
Imaging Center 4
PO Box 2027
Cedar Rapids, IA 52406
Apply through Email/Fax
Email or fax a completed application to a local HHS office .
Call Relay Iowa TTY
For telephone accessibility assistance if you are deaf, hard-of-hearing, deaf-blind, or have difficulty speaking.
ةیبرعلا | 简体中文 | Deutsch | Français
हिंदी | unDusdm (Karen) | 한국어 | ພາສາ
Llame a Relay Iowa TTY
Teléfono de texto para personas con problemas de audición, del habla y ceguera si necesita asistencia.
ລາວ | Pennsylfaanisch Deitsch | Русский
Српско-хрватски | Tagalog | ไทย | Tiếng Việt
Iowa Medicaid Member Services
Email Address
[email&#160;protected]
Phone(s)
Toll Free
1-800-338-8366
Local Des Moines
515-256-4606
Fax
515-725-1351
Related files
470-5170 Addendum.pdf
470-5170.pdf
470-5170S Addendum.pdf
470-5170S.pdf