988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline
Home » Programs » 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline
YOU ARE NEVER A BOTHER.
Feeling worried, sad or stressed out! you don&#8217;t nave to deal with it alone. Don t wait. At any point. Reach out Text, Call or Chat 988. Talk to someone who cares and is ready to help.
Free. Confidential. 24/7
WHAT IS 988?
988 Is Now Available in the U.S. Virgin Islands
By dialing, texting and chatting with 988. you can quickly connect with trained compassionate counselors for immediate help for emotional distress, mental health challenges. Even if you just need someone to talk to, at anytime, our caring counselors are here for you. You are not alone.
Free. Confidential. 24/7
WHAT TO EXPECT
The 988 Lifeline is available 24/7/365. Your conversations are free and confidential.
Call the 988 Lifeline
Here is what you can expect when making a call to the 988 Lifeline.
Step 1 of 4
First, you&#8217;ll hear a message that gives you service selection options including Veterans (Press 1), Spanish-language (Press 2), or your local 988 Lifeline contact center.
Step 2 of 4
We’ll play some hold music while you are connected to a live counselor.
Step 3 of 4
A counselor will say hello and introduce themselves. Your skilled counselor will ask you if you are safe.
Step 4 of 4
After they ask about your safety, your counselor will listen to you, understand how your problem is affecting you, provide support, and share any resources that may be helpful.
Texting the 988 Lifeline
Here is what you can expect when texting the 988 Lifeline.
Step 1 of 6
When you send a text to 988, you will be given options to connect with a live counselor from the main 988 Lifeline or our Spanish-language (text AYUDA) and information on how to text the Veterans Crisis Line at 838255.
Step 2 of 6
When you text “Next” you will be accepting our Terms of Service .
Step 3 of 6
You will then be asked to complete a brief survey to help your counselor understand how they can best support you.
Step 4 of 6
You’ll receive a “Wait” message with a survey link to optional questions while we connect you to a counselor.
Step 5 of 6
Your counselor will say hello and introduce themselves. Your skilled counselor will ask if you are safe.
Step 6 of 6
After they ask about your safety, they will be calm and comforting, listen to you, and provide support. They may also share helpful resources.
Chatting with the 988 Lifeline
Here is what you can expect when starting a chat with the 988 Lifeline.
Step 1 of 5
After clicking “Chat” a new window with a brief survey will open. This survey helps our live counselors understand how to best support you and takes less than 5 minutes to complete.
Step 2 of 5
When you click “Start a Chat”, you are accepting our Terms of Service .
Step 3 of 5
You will then see a message that indicates we are connecting you to a live counselor.
Step 4 of 5
When you are connected, a counselor will say hello and introduce themselves. Your skilled counselor will ask if you are safe.
Step 5 of 5
After they ask about your safety, they will be calm and comforting, listen to you, and provide support. They may also share helpful resources.
Programs
Behavioral Health, Alcoholism, and Drug Dependency
Tobacco Resources
988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline
Communicable Diseases
Monkeypox
Immunizations
Vaccine for Children Healthcare Providers
Vital Records &#038; Statistics
COVID-19 Funeral Assistance Program
Women, Infants, and Children &#8211; WIC
More WIC Information
Nutrition Information
More Nutrition Information
Family Planning
About the Family Planning Clinics
Family Planning Clinic Services
Discover Family Planning
Family Planning Clinic Appointments
Infant and Toddlers Program
Maternal and Child Health
Chronic Disease and Prevention
Virgin Islands Central Cancer Registry
Environmental Health
How To Obtain A Health Card
Public Health Preparedness
Emergency Medical Services
Emergency Care &#038; Transport
VI Licensure
Emergency Medical Services for Children
Epidemiology &#038; Disease Reporting
About Our Program
Disease Reporting
Resources
Current Outbreaks
Zika Test Contact List
Contact Epidemiology
Community Health Services
Legal Counsel
Primary Care
Vector Control Program
Dengue, Zika, and Chikungunya
Dengue Fever
Personal Protection
You Can Help with Mosquito Control!
Vector Control Program Projects
Contact Us!
Back
United States Virgin Islands
Department of Health
Search
Search