STATE of NEBRASKA
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR
LINCOLN
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 23-16
Establishing a Women's Bill of Rights
WHEREAS, males and females possess unique and immutable biological differences that
manifest prior to birth and increase as they age and experience puberty;
WHEREAS, biological differences between the sexes mean that males are, on average, bigger,
stronger, and faster than females;
WHEREAS, women have achieved inspirational and significant accomplishments in education,
athletics, and employment;
WHEREAS, biological differences between the sexes are enduring and may, in some
circumstances, warrant the creation of separate social, educational, athletic, or other spaces in order
to ensure safety and/or to allow members of each sex to succeed and thrive; and
WHEREAS, inconsistencies in court rulings and policy initiatives with respect to the definitions
of "sex," "male," "female," "man," and "woman" have led to endangerment of single-sex spaces
and resources, thereby necessitating clarification of certain terms.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Jim Pillen, Governor of the State of Nebraska, under and pursuant to
the authority vested in the Governor by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Nebraska, do
hereby order and direct the following:
1. In the promulgation of administrative rules, enforcement of administrative decisions, and
the adjudication of disputes by administrative agencies, boards, and commissions, all state
agencies, boards, and commissions when using the following terms shall, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, define them as follows:
a. a person's "sex" is defined as his or her biological sex (either male or female) at
birth;
b. a "female" is an individual whose biological reproductive system is developed to
produce ova; a "male" is an individual whose biological reproductive system is
developed to fertilize the ova of a female;
a. "woman" and "girl" refer to human females, and the terms "man" and "boy" refer
to human males;
b. the word "mother" is defined as a parent of the female sex and "father" is defined
as a parent of the male sex;
2. There are legitimate reasons to distinguish between the sexes with respect to athletics,
prisons or other detention facilities, domestic violence shelters, rape crisis centers, locker
rooms, restrooms, and other areas where biology, safety, and/or privacy are implicated;
3. Any public school or school district and any state agency, department, or office that collects
vital statistics for the purpose of complying with antidiscrimination laws or for the purpose
of gathering accurate public health, crime, economic, or other data shall identify each
individual who is part of the collected data set as either male or female at birth.
This Executive Order shall become effective immediately and shall expire upon the effective date
of state law governing participation of biological males in female athletics and prescribing
environments where single-sex dedicated services and/or facilities should be provided.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and cause the Seal of the State of Nebraska to
be affixed this 30th day of August, 2023 .
Attest:
Robert Evnen, Secretary of State
State of Nebraska