Back
Contact
Leadership
Back
Resource List
Ultimate Guide to Transitioning
Support Group Meetings
ID Documents Center
Health Care Provider List
Membership
Crisis Hotlines
Back
Know Your Rights: Directory
Project 2025
Trans Youth Healthcare Ban
Bathrooms, Students, Title IX
Bossier’s Criminal Bathroom Ban
Back
Legislative Toolbox + Trans Action Team
Lege Tracker 2026
Guide to Committee Hearings
Who is LocALL?
Resource List
Ultimate Guide to Transitioning
Our Ultimate Guide to Transitioning is a helpful toolkit meant to offer a broad overview of the mental, physical, and legal considerations for TGNC folks when it comes to transitioning. Whether you’re questioning where you are or in the early stages of your gender journey, this guide will equip you with the introductory knowledge necessary to take your first steps to living in your authentic truth. While this guide is not exhaustive, we invite your feedback on its evolution.
Explore Our Ultimate Guide to Transitioning
Become a member
Join our Facebook Groups for TGNC people, Parents of TGNC youth, and a group for everyone, including allies. We connect with our community and share events within these groups, like our social support groups .
Become a Member
Attend our Support Groups
ID Documents Center
Our ID Documents Center includes all the information you might need to be able to change your legal name and gender marker on your identity documents, including:
Step-by-step instructions to obtain a court ordered legal name change
A downloadable form which you can have your physician sign to get your gender marker changed on your Driver’s License or state ID
Instructions on how to get a new birth certificate
Visit our ID Documents Center
Health Care Provider List
We’ve done our best to collect information for TGNC-affirming providers across the state. We hope you can find someone to fit your needs. If you have knowledge of a provider not currently on this list, please email us so we can get them added. Likewise, should you have a negative experience with one of the providers listed, please share it with us , so that we can make any necessary adjustments. If you are a provider who is interested in being on this list, please send us the relevant information , as well as a short summary of your experience with TGNC clients.
Visit our Health Care Provider List
Crisis Hotlines
We have a compiled list of national and local crisis hotlines. If you need help, ask one of these for help.
Ask for Help
How to be a trans ally 101
This guide from Lush Cosmetics is a great first look at how you can be an ally to transgender friends, family, neighbors, and colleagues.
Download the Guide to be an Ally
US Trans Survey
Louisiana state report
The 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey (USTS) is the largest survey examining the experiences of transgender people in the United States, with 27,715 respondents. Conducted in the summer of 2015 by the National Center for Transgender Equality, the USTS was an anonymous, online survey for transgender adults (18 and older) in the United States, available in English and Spanish. The report of the 2015 USTS provides a detailed look at the experiences of transgender people across a wide range of categories, such as education, employment, family life, health, housing, and interactions with the criminal justice system.
The Louisiana State Report