0
Upcoming Clinics
Trans Maryland Document Assistance Clinics
The Trans Maryland Document Assistance Clinics provide information about updating important documents for transgender Marylanders so you can represent yourself through legal processes.
About Our Clinics
Upcoming Clinics
Request a Clinic
Volunteer for a Clinic
Note: Masks are recommended at Trans Maryland Document Assistance Clinics. Extra masks are provided.
What Should I
Bring With Me?
For Name & Gender Marker Changes....
If you have access to your birth certificate and ID/Driver’s License , please bring them.
If you do not, please come to the clinic anyway!
You do not need to have these documents to attend a clinic. We can help you get any documents you don’t have.
We want to talk to you and help you no matter what!
For Second Parent Adoptions...
If you have access to these documents, please bring them. If you do not, please come to the clinic anyway!
Marriage Certificate (if applicable)
Birth Certificate for Adoptee
Statement of Health of the child from a physician or health care provider
Any written agreement consenting to the conception of the child (e.g., donor agreement, agreement from sperm banks or health care provider)
You do not need to have these documents to attend a clinic. We can help you get any documents you don’t have.
We want to talk to you and help you no matter what!
For Power of Attorney....
No specific documents are needed.
Upcoming Clinics
Saturday, November 14, 2026
Location: St. Luke’s Lutheran Church
Address: 1601 Frederick St. Cumberland, MD 21502
Time: 2 to 5
Services Available:
Name and Gender Marker Changes
Power of Attorney (Financial & Healthcare)
Domestic Partnerships
Advance Directives & Living Wills
Second Parent Adoptions
Notary Services
Arts and Crafts While You Wait!
Our Organizing Partners
Dreams & Visions
Dreams and Visions is a spiritual sanctuary in Baltimore where Queer folks and committed supporters find hope and healing through creativity and community.
Learn More: dreamsandvisionsbaltimore.org/
Access to Justice Resource Center & Baltimore County Circuit Court
The Access to Justice Resource Center at Baltimore County Circuit Court is a first-of-its kind in-house resource center. Our services include legal self-help, the law library, and language access.
Hinenu Baltimore
Hinenu: The Baltimore Justice Shtibel is a community rooted in joy, pursuit of justice, and radical kinship. We offer a home for people of all backgrounds seeking Jewish life to land, feel safe, and be welcomed.
Learn More: hinenubaltimore.org/
Cedar Lane Unitarian Universalist Congregation
Cedar Lane Unitarian Universalist Congregation is a community where love works. Together, we explore the eternal, nurture community, and build a more just world. Together, we dare to embody beloved community.
Learn More: cedarlane.org/
MoCo Pride Center
Our mission is to champion the unwavering right to self-determination of our LGBTQIA+ community, uplift the most vulnerable, and catalyze lasting change through empowerment, advocacy, and solidarity.
Learn More:
mocopridefamily.org /
Previous Clinics
Dreams & Visions
Sunday, December 8th, 2024
Baltimore County Circuit Court
Friday, December 13th, 2024
Hinenu Baltimore
Sunday, December 22nd, 2024
Ceder Lane Unitarian Universalist Congregation
Friday, December 27th, 2024