Skip to main content
An official website of the State of Oregon
Learn
How you know »
(how to identify a Oregon.gov website)
An official website of the State of Oregon »
Toggle Main Menu
Search this site
Submit
close
Gender-Affirming Care for Oregon Health Plan (OHP) Members
Site Navigation
What is gender-affirming care? &#160;&#160;
Getting care &#160;&#160;
What OHP covers &#160;&#160;
Criteria
Health care is a constitutional right in Oregon, and gender‑affirming care is protected by state law.
OHA is taking action to preserve gender-affirming care for Oregon Health Plan (OHP) members in response to a federal rule change that is scheduled to take effect Oct. 13, 2026. While the new federal rule will prohibit federal Medicaid funding from covering some forms of gender-affirming care for youth, Oregon will use state funding to continue covering this essential health care for all OHP members. More information is in the below section titled “Will Federal Changes Affect OHP Benefits?”
Despite uncertainty at the federal level, OHA will continue to do everything it can to ensure everyone in Oregon can receive the quality, compassionate health care they need and deserve. OHA is determined to protect and preserve health freedoms for everyone in Oregon - including transgender and gender-diverse people.
For more information about what state law says about gender-affirming care,
visit the Oregon Department of Justice's webpage .
What Is Gender-Affirming Care?
Broadly speaking, gender-affirming care is health care that meets people’s physical, mental and social health needs while respectfully affirming their gender identity. Transition-related care is a type of gender-affirming care that provides health services during gender transition.
How to Get Gender-Affirming Care
Start with any member of your health care team, including your primary care provider, specialty care provider or mental health clinician. Your physician and mental health provider can refer you for services.
Need more help?
If you are in a CCO, call your CCO or use their online provider search tools.
Find CCO contact information here .
If you are not in a CCO, call OHP Open Card Care Coordination at 800-562-4620 or use the
online provider search .
If you do not know your CCO, call OHP Client Services at 800-273-0557.
You may not be able to get an appointment for gender-affirming care right away. This is because there may not be enough clinicians available to immediately provide all services. Please talk with your providers about the urgency of your health care needs.
What Does OHP Cover?
OHP covers all medically necessary treatments that are prescribed by a health care provider according to the
Standards of Care for the Health of Transgender and Gender Diverse People, Version 8 (SOC 8) . Despite a
federal rule change that is scheduled to take effect Oct. 13, 2026, Oregon will continue to cover gender-affirming care for all OHP members. More information is below.
Covered services may include&#58;
Non-surgical treatments
Hair removal
Hormone therapy
Lab work
Medical tattooing
Mental health therapy
Physical therapy
Puberty blockers
Speech therapy
Facial surgery
Surgery to make the face more masculine or feminine for gender confirmation, such as&#58;
Jaw, chin, lip, nose, eye or eyebrow surgery
Tracheal augmentation
Vocal cord surgery
Hair transplantation
Breast/chest surgery (top surgery)
Breast reconstruction (augmentation/implants or reduction)
Liposuction (fat removal)
Mastectomy (breast removal))
Gonadectomy (removing testes or ovaries)
Hysterectomy (uterus removal)
Orchiectomy (removing testicles)
Salpingo-oophorectomy (removal of ovaries and/or fallopian tubes)
Genital surgery (bottom surgery)
Metoidioplasty (small penis construction)
Phalloplasty (penis construction)
Vaginoplasty (vagina construction or repair)
Vulvoplasty (vulva construction)
Genitoplasty (creating gender-neutral look in groin area)
Body contouring
Lipofilling (fat transfer)
Liposuction (fat removal)
Monsplasty (mons reduction or “pubic lift”)
Criteria to Access Gender-Affirming Care May Include&#58;
According to standards of care, OHP members who may need to&#58;
Have mental health and medical professionals fully assess them.
Have marked and sustained gender dysphoria.
Show they understand and consent for the treatment.
Understand how the treatment will affect fertility (if applicable).
Have explored options to keep their fertility.
Have a health care professional&#58;
Confirm that there are no other possible causes for gender dysphoria.
Assess their mental and physical health and whether treatment would harm them.
Discuss the risks and benefits of treatment.
For surgery&#58; If hormone treatment is being pursued, have completed at least six months of hormone treatment. While hormone therapy is not required before surgery and can be contraindicated for some patients, hormone therapy may be recommended in some situations to improve surgical outcomes.
Adolescents may also need to&#58;
Have mental health and medical professionals fully assess them.
Have their parent(s) or guardian(s) take part in the assessment, unless this is harmful or not possible.
Have entered stage 2 of puberty (when physical changes start).
For surgery&#58; Have completed at least 12 months of hormone therapy.
Will Federal Changes Affect OHP Benefits?
Oregon will continue to cover gender-affirming health care for all OHP members even though
a new federal rule that goes into effect Oct. 13, 2026, will prohibit federal Medicaid funding from covering some forms of gender-affirming care for people under 18.
To create a distinction between state and federal Medicaid funding, OHA will cover some gender-affirming services for youth under 18 targeted by the federal rule separately from its contracts with CCOs. OHA will directly pay for these services through its Open Card program, which is also known as fee-for-service, or FFS. For Oregon Medicaid members who are under 18, OHP will specifically cover the following by Open Card&#58;
Medications for gender-affirming treatment (including hormone therapies and puberty suppressants)
Surgical procedures
CCOs will continue to manage all other gender-affirming care benefits that are covered by OHP, including care coordination.
Guidance for Young OHP Members
If an OHP member or their guardian has a concern about receiving gender-affirming care because of the federal rule change, they should&#58;
Speak with their current providers and ask if those providers either are or will be enrolled in the OHP Open Card/fee-for-service program.
If their provider is or will be enrolled, OHP members do not need to do anything. They can continue to have their care covered by OHP without interruption.
If a provider doesn’t enroll in Open Card/fee-for-service, members will need to see another provider that takes Open Card.
Where to get help
CCO members who need help with care coordination or finding health care providers should first contact their CCO. Contact information for all CCOs is available at
OHP.Oregon.gov/CCO-Contacts .
CCO members can also search
OHPOpenCard.org to find providers who are in network for OHP FFS/Open Card.
OHP members who have questions about Open Card should call OHP Client Services (1-800-273-0557,
Ask.OHP@odhsoha.oregon.gov ).
If additional assistance is needed, OHP members can also contact the OHA Ombuds Program (1-877-642-0450,
OHA.OmbudsOffice@odhsoha.oregon.gov ).
&times;
How to recognize an official Oregon website
.gov
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock icon ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website.
Only share sensitive information on official, secure websites.
Close
Hidden Submit
Your browser is out-of-date! It has known security flaws and may not display all features of this and other websites. Learn how
&times;