Massachusetts Court Order
Getting a court order is the first step to take when changing your name in Massachusetts.
Get prepared
The court petition is a formal request to the state to legally change your name. You’ll file this by mail or directly with a clerk at the Probate and Family Court in your county. If approved, you’ll be mailed a certified Decree of Change of Name, which is the official and legal proof of your name.
To file, you will need:
A certified copy of your birth certificate (long-form). This is available from the Registry of Vital Records or from the city or town where you were born.
Past name change documents, if applicable. For example, a marriage certificate or Judgment of Divorce.
Can I change my name if I owe debt? Yes, you can change your name even if you have debts. However, you must notify any debt collections about legal name change. You cannot change your legal name in order to evade debt collection.
I was born out of state. Can I change my name in Massachusetts? Yes! But note: you must have legal residence in Massachusetts for at least 6 months before submitting a legal name change petition.
What if my birth certificate is not written in English? Birth certificates that are not written in English must include a written translation signed by the person translating the birth certificate with a statement that they are fluent in the foreign language and English and that the translation is a true and accurate translation. The translators signature must be notarized.
Fill out forms
Namesake will walk you through all of the questions required to fill out forms for the court. Once finished, a PDF will be downloaded for you to review and sign.
This form helps you fill out name change documents, including: Petition to Change Name of Adult (CJP-27)
Court Activity Record Request Form (CJP-34)
Prefer to do it yourself? Download blank forms
Takes about 4–9 minutes . We’ll provide guidance for common questions.
Responses are securely stored in Chrome on this Apple Macintosh . For security, your information never leaves this device.
Review and print documents
Make sure everything looks accurate and complete any missing fields.
Do not sign the petition until you are in the presence of a notary.
To file your name change, you’ll also need a certified copy of your birth certificate, and legal records of any previous name changes.
What is a notary?
A notary is someone appointed to witness the signing of important documents,
like name change petitions. Basically, the notary is making sure that you are
who you say you are, and that you’re signing the document voluntarily.
How does the notarization process work?
The notary will ask for your unexpired ID with a photograph and signature.
Your old driver’s license, military ID, green card, or passport should work.
They’ll review your unsigned court petition and then ask you to sign it.
They’ll stamp the document, note the signing for their records, and that’s it!
Where can I find a notary?
The most common place to get documents notarized is a local bank branch. There
may be notary services available at the public library (but call ahead first
to check). Many UPS stores offer notarization for about $10. There are also
online notarization services, but these tend to be more expensive than
in-person (usually starting around $25).
Additionally, you can see LGBTQ+ organizations that offer notarization in the Namesake Directory .
Gather funds or waive fees
Cost Amount
Filing fee $150
Surcharge fee $15
Total $165
You can waive court fees if you meet the eligibility requirements in Massachusetts . The Massachusetts Transgender Political Coalition also offers financial assistance through its Identity Document Assistance network.
What is an “Affidavit of Indigency”? An Affidavit of Indigency is a fancy way of saying fee waiver. If you qualify by the state’s standards, you can complete this form to request that your court filing fees be waived.
This form helps you fill out name change documents, including: Affidavit of Indigency
Prefer to do it yourself? Download blank forms
Takes about 2–4 minutes . We’ll provide guidance for common questions.
Responses are securely stored in Chrome on this Apple Macintosh . For security, your information never leaves this device.
File documents
You’ll file this by mail or directly with a clerk at the Probate and Family Court in your county. We suggest filing in person, if you can. You can pay by bank check, money order, or credit card at the courthouse.
Do I need an appointment? There’s no appointment appointment required; feel free to walk in! You can also mail in your paperwork. Make sure to go to the Probate and Family Court in your county. You cannot file at other locations.
Can I submit documents online? Massachusetts does offer e-filing as a means of submitting your paperwork. However, there is an additional $22 charge, plus a credit card processing fee, and the interface used for filing is very poorly designed. Filing in person or by mail is simpler for most people, and that’s what we recommend.
Await decision
In most cases, you will not need to appear before a judge. Typically, decisions take 2-6 weeks to arrive by mail, and that’s it! Your name is official.
What if I’m required to attend a hearing? You will receive a notice in the mail that includes a date, time, and location where you need to appear. Bring copies of all documents with you, including any proof of service to the hearing.
I filed my name change forms awhile ago, but I haven’t heard back from the court. What do I do? Contact the Court Service Centers by phone, Zoom, or in person. When you connect with a court representative, they can help look up your case and share the status with you.