1
Louisiana Department of Public Safety
Office of Motor Vehicles
Policy 22.00 Name Changes and Usage
Section: 1. Issuance of Driver’s License
Effective Date: 05/01/1996
Revised Date: 10/31/2025
Authority:
R.S. 9:245
R.S. 9:292
R.S. 32:409.1
To view Louisiana Statutes: http://www.legis.state.la.us/
General:
• You must change your name with the Social Security Administration prior to changing your
name with the Office of Motor Vehicles (OMV). OMV will verify that the name change has been
made with the Social Security Administration using online verification.
o The turn-around time for the name to be changed on the Social Security database is
approximately 24 hours.
• If you have two credentials (driver’s license and identification card), the name must be
consistent on both cards.
o Name changes may only be processed on a valid credential. If a name is
changed on an identification card, but the driver’s license is suspended and/or
expired, only the identification card name change will be processed. When the
driver’s license is reinstated and/or renewed, the name change will be processed
to match the identification card.
• Altered documentation and/or copies of documents will not be accepted.
Name Usage Requirements
Type Requirements
Unmarried
Applicant
The first, middle, and last name shall be the same as shown on the birth certificate or other
document used for identification.1
Married
Applicant
The first name on the credential shall be the same as shown on the document used for securing the
credential.2
The last name may be one of the following combinations:
• Last name, as shown on the birth certificate2
• Last name of the spouse, as shown on the original or certified marriage license3
• A combination of the two last names (hyphenated), as indicated on the marriage license
Note: This applies to male or female. Either may opt to take the other spouse’s surname.
Suffixes
The only suffix to be used will be specified on the birth certificate (or court order).
• Example: Roman numerals shall be used in the case of III, IV, etc. Unless a court order is
provided, senior (SR) should not be used as a person is not (normally) born “Senior”.
Punctuation
or Titles
Other than the hyphen (-), no punctuation mark can be used in the name (i.e., J.J., D'Shea).
No title can be added to the given name (first name) or after the surname (last name) (i.e., Dr., Mr.,
Mrs., M.D., PhD,). The applicant may, however, sign the license and/or identification card with the
title if the applicant wishes to do so.
2
Required Documentation:
• Social Security Card with name change
o When you change your name, you must get your name changed with the Social
Security Administration before you can change your name with the Office of Motor
Vehicles.
Name Change Required Documentation
(in addition to Social Security Documentation)
Type Description Required Documentation Notes
Court
Ordered
Adoption of a
person over
seventeen (17)
years of age
(Adoption of the
minor must be by a
person of legal age
(18 years or older))
Original, certified Court Order
Amended birth certificate, passport, or naturalization
certificate
Notarial Act of Adoption, which must:
• Indicate the name change (R.S. 9:461, R.S. 9:462)
• Be properly notarized and filed
• Be signed by the adoptive parents and natural
parents, then presented together with a certified
copy of the amended birth certificate
Any name changes
by religious orders
for religious reasons
will not be accepted,
unless legal action
has been taken to
change their name.
Adding a
Married
Name
Married within
United States Original, certified marriage certificate
Adding a
Married
Name
Married Abroad
Original, certified marriage certificate
Translated marriage certificate, unless OMV personnel
can translate
Reverting to
a Previous
Name
Returning to birth
certificate name,
previous married
name, or a
combination of the
two
One of the following is required:
• Original birth certificate
• Original divorce decree
• Marriage certificate from previous marriage
• Social Security card or official notification of name
change from the Social Security Administration
Fees:
• Driver’s License - If within 180 days of expiration, the applicant may renew the driver’s
license with the name change or perform the name change only.
o Renewal with a Name Change– Applicable renewal fees apply.
o Name Change Only – Applicable charges apply as a duplicate license fee.
• Identification Card – If within 90 days of expiration, the applicant may renew the identification
card with the name change or perform the name change only.
o Renewal with a name change– Applicable renewal fees apply.
o Name Change Only – Applicable charges apply as a duplicate identification card fee.
• Applicable fees will be charged for each credential that requires a name change.
• Name changes may only be processed on a valid credential. If a name is changed on an
identification card, but the driver’s license is suspended, only the identification card name
change will be processed. When the driver’s license is reinstated, the name change will be
processed to match the identification card. Applicable fees will apply.
3
Related Policies:
Section 1, Policy 6.00 Identification Requirements
Section 1, Policy 2.00 Fees and Duration of License/ID Card
References:
1 – Louisiana State Legislature. Application or Special Certificate Applications; Penalties for False
Information (R.S. 32:409.1), retrieved from https://legis.la.gov/Legis/Law.aspx?d=88389.
2 – Louisiana State Legislature. Surname of a Married Person (R.S. 9:292), retrieved from
https://legis.la.gov/Legis/Law.aspx?d=181234.
3 – Louisiana State Legislature. Marriage Certificates (R.S. 9:245), retrieved from
https://legis.la.gov/Legis/Law.aspx?d=107116.