Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Alaska Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. Requires filing a petition and a short informal hearing in court.
Name Change (Minor): Yes. Requires parental consent, filing a petition, and a short, informal hearing in court.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. Requires court order.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes. Requires certification from medical provider. Alaska does not allow non-binary gender markers on birth certificates.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. Requires court order
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes. Requires certification from medical provider. Alaska does not allow non-binary gender markers on driver’s licenses.
Restrictions based on Criminal History: None
Alaska Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Alaska, you must submit a petition to the court. A petition is a formal written application to a court requesting judicial action—in this case, your name change! These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
You may not change your name for a fraudulent purpose, to avoid debts, to obstruct law enforcement, or to affect the rights of another person.
Step 1: Complete Court Forms
The Alaska Court System provides an Adult Change of Name Packet with all required forms and information on filling them out.
To begin the name change process, you must complete 1) CIV-700 Petition for Change of Name , and 2) VS-405 Application or Report of Change of Name .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing. More detailed information on this process is detailed in the CIV-699 Instructions for Adult Change of Name .
When filing, you will be required to notify the court if you are on probation or in the custody of the Department of Corrections, on the sex offender registry, charged with a criminal offense, or currently incarcerated. There is space to divulge this information on the petition.
Before the petition and application can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification to your appointment.
Step 2: Waive Publication Requirement (optional)
Alaska has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted on the Court's website for four weeks leading up to the hearing. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes, but if publication poses a personal safety concern, a waiver is available.
If you wish to be excused from the publication requirement, you may fill out form CIV-708 Request to Waive Posting in Adult Change of Name Case .
The Court may also ask you to publish notice in a newspaper or in a public place before and/or after your hearing. If you file a waiver request (CIV-708) at the same time they open your case, then the case will not be published on the Court’s website until after the judge decides on your request. If the request to waive posting is granted, the case will remain unavailable and will not be posted on the Court’s website.
Step 3: Gather & File Required Documents at the Superior Court
You will need to gather and file the required documents listed below with the superior court of your county of residence. There is a list of superior court locations on the last page of the instruction packet . You will need:
CIV-700 Petition for Change of Name
VS-405 Application or Report of Change of Name
CIV-708 Request to Waive Posting in Adult Change of Name Case (optional)
A valid form of photo ID
Filing Fee ($200.00 cash or check)
If you cannot afford the filing fee for filing this case, you may also submit form TF-920 Request for Exemption from Payment of Fees.
After you submit all of the required documents and pay the filing fee, you will be given or mailed an Order for Hearing, Posting, and Additional Service (CIV-701). This order will include the date of the hearing, whether the Court will post notice, and whether you must provide any additional or alternative notice of your petition.
Step 4: Attend the Hearing
You must attend the Court hearing as scheduled. The hearing is usually short and fairly informal. You should be prepared to tell the judge why you want to change your name and assert that you are not changing your name in order to avoid debts or commit fraud. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here.
If the judge grants your name change, the court will post notice on their website for one week and the judge may also request additional postings with a newspaper, unless the court has already waived this requirement.
After any additional requested postings or published notices are made, the Court will issue a Certificate of Name Change. You will need to use this Certificate as your official proof for changing your name with any government office or institution. You will receive one free certified copy of the Certificate of Name Change. It is recommended to ask for 5-7copies of this order for your own record and to update your identity documentation. A fee will apply per copy requested.
The Certificate will state when you are able to use your new name. This date will be at least 30 days after the judgment was made. Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Alaska Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change in Alaska as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. A petition is a formal written application to a court requesting judicial action—in this case, your name change! These steps will guide you through the process.
Step 1: Obtain Parental Consent
Consent from all known and legal parents is required to grant a minor name change. A judge can waive consent with good cause (such as , if the non-petitioning parent is deceased, had parental rights terminated, or is unable to be located after a diligent search).
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary, and you can proceed to the next step.
If a known legal parent is not petitioning, they will need to be notified of your name change. If the non-petitioning parent consents to the name change, they will need to complete the CIV-695 Parental Consent from Non-Petitioning Parent, which you should file during step 2.
If one parent objects, the Court must determine whether there is good cause and if it would be in the best interest of the minor to change their name despite that parent's objection.
In the event a parent objects ) , the filing parent will need to obtain a summons from the clerk and serve the non-petitioning parent with the following documents:
Summons – CIV-697 Child's Change of Name (this can be requested from the county clerk if you do not receive one when filing your petition)
A copy of your completed CIV-694 Petition to Change Child’s Name
A blank CIV-695 Parental Consent from Non-Petitioning Parent
A blank CIV-696 Objection to Change of Name
All of these documents must be served to the non-consenting parent at least 30 days before the hearing date. This can be done by process server or by certified mail. More information on how to serve a summons can be found here . After the other parent has been served with the proper documents above, you will need to file proof of service with the court. See further instructions on summons under Step 8 in the instruction packet here .
If any parents do not support the minor's name change, the minor and the petitioning adult may wish to consult with an attorney before filing.
Step 2: Complete Court Forms
The Alaska Court System provides a Child's Change of Name Packet with all required forms and information on filling them out.
In order to begin the name change process, your petitioning parent must complete the required forms on your behalf. You will need:
CIV-694 Petition to Change Child's Name
CIV-695 Parental Consent from Non-Petitioning Parent
VS-405 Application or Report of Change of Name
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing. More detailed information on this process is detailed in the CIV-693 Instructions for Child's Change of Name .
Before the forms can be filed, you will need to have them notarized. You must bring proper identification to your notary appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here.
Step 3: Waive Publication Requirement (optional)
Alaska has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted on the Court's website for four weeks leading up to the hearing. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes; however, if publication poses a personal safety concern, a waiver is available.
If you wish to be excused from the publication requirement, you may fill out form CIV-709 Request to Waive Posting in Child's Change of Name Case .
The Court may also order the adult to provide notice published in a newspaper or posted in a public place. The adult may file an additional form with your petition to request to be excused from this requirement.
The Court may also ask you to provide notice published in a newspaper or posted in a public place before and/or after your hearing. If you file a waiver request (CIV-708) at the same time they open your case, then the case will not be published on the Court’s website until after the judge decides on your request. If the request to waive posting is granted, the case will remain unavailable and will not be posted on the Court’s website.
Step 4: Gather & File Required Documents at the Superior Court
You will need to gather and file the required documents listed below with the superior court of your county of residence. There is a list of superior court locations on the last page of the instruction packet . You will need:
CIV-694 Petition to Change Child's Name
CIV-695 Parental Consent from Non-Petitioning Parent
VS-405 Application or Report of Change of Name
CIV-708 Request to Waive Posting in Child's Change of Name Case (optional)
Filing Fee ($200.00 cash or check)
If the filing adult cannot afford the filing fee for filing this case, they may also submit form TF-920 Request for Exemption from Payment of Fees .
After the adult submits all of the required documents and pays the filing fee, you will be given or mailed an Order for Hearing, Posting, and Additional Service (CIV-701). This order will include the date of the hearing, whether the Court will post notice, and whether you must provide any additional or alternative notice of your petition.
Step 5: Attend the Hearing
The filing adult and minor must attend the Court hearing. The hearing is usually short and fairly informal. The filing adult should be prepared to tell the judge why they want to change the minor's name.
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the minor is old enough, the judge may ask you about your name change as well. If a parent objects to the name change, the judge will allow the filing adult to respond, and then decide whether it is in the best interests of the minor to allow the name change in spite of the objection. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here.
If the judge grants your name change, the court will post notice on their website for one week, and the judge may also request additional postings with a newspaper, unless the court has already waived this requirement.
After any additional requested postings or notices are made, the Court will issue a Certificate of Name Change. You will need to use this Certificate as your official proof for changing your name with any government office or institution. You will receive one free certified copy of the Certificate of Name Change. It is recommended to ask for 5-7 copies of this order for your own record and to update your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested.
The Certificate will state when you are able to use your new name. This date will be at least 30 days after the judgment was made. Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Alaska Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
Alaska Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
Guest Form
A photocopy of the ID of the registrant (or the parent or guardian requesting the change on behalf of a minor)
A certified copy of the Certificate of Name Change
The required $30.00 fee.
When Amending the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to submit:
Alaska Birth Certificate Request Form
A photocopy of the ID of the registrant (or the parent or guardian requesting the change on behalf of a minor)
A certified copy of the Certificate of Name Change
A letter of certification from a medical provider familiar with your transition
The required $30.00 fee.
When gathering your documents to submit to Alaska Vital Records, ask your medical provider to write a letter (such as this gender marker change template ) to include with your birth certificate request form. You will need a wet signature from them.
The letter should be on office letterhead and include: 1) the physician's full name, 2) their medical license or certificate number, and 3) the issuing state of medical license/certificate. The contents of the letter should detail that 1) they treated you or reviewed/evaluated your medical history, 2) you have had appropriate clinical treatment for transitioning or are in the process of transitioning, and 3) the statement must include “I declare under penalty of perjury under law of the United States that the foregoing is true and correct.”
You may submit a certified copy of a court order for a gender marker change instead of the letter of certification from your medical provider, if applicable.
If you were born in Alaska , you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Alaska Vital Records Office or bring the proper documentation and photo identification to the office in person.
Mailing address:
Alaska Vital Records Office
Attn: Corrections
PO Box 110675
Juneau, AK 99811-0675
Physical addresses:
3601 C Street, Suite 902
Anchorage, Alaska 99503
350 Main Street, Suite 404
Juneau, AK 99811
The standard processing time for changing a birth certificate can take up to 3 months. There is no expedited service available.
If you are no longer an Alaska resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Alaska, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. Alaska’s Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of a Petition for Name Change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Alaska, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records Special Services Unit through email at BVSSpecialServices@alaska.gov or by phone (907) 465-1200 .
Alaska Driver's License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on an Alaska ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
Under state law, an applicant is required to notify the Alaska DMV of a change of name within 30 days of it being granted.
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You will need to schedule an in-person appointment. For a list of locations and hours, see here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Application for Alaska Driver License, Permit, or Identification Card
A "primary document" of identification such as an original birth certificate or passport proving (prior) legal name, date of birth, and citizenship (for a list of primary documents, see here )
Proof of Alaska residency (e.g. utility bill, paystub, bank statement)
Your updated Social Security card
A certified copy of order of name change
The replacement license fee (varies depending on license type ).
A vision test may also be required. You may also need to have your photo taken.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only on a State ID
To change your gender marker on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You will need to schedule an in-person appointment. For a list of locations and hours, see here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Application for Alaska Driver License, Permit, or Identification Card
Form 427 Certification for Change of Sex Designator on Driver License or Identification Card
A "primary document" of identification such as an original birth certificate or passport proving (prior) legal name, date of birth, and citizenship (for a list of primary documents, see here )
Proof of Alaska residency (e.g. utility bill, paystub, bank statement) ,
Your updated Social Security card
The replacement license fee (varies depending on license type ).
A vision test may also be required. You may also need to have your photo taken.
Form 427 must be filled out and signed by yourself as well as by your medical provider or other qualified professional, such as a physician in medicine or osteopathy, social worker, psychologist, professional counselor, physician assistant, or advanced nurse practitioner, who could speak to your transition.
If you are able to provide an amended birth certificate, a valid US passport with your preferred gender marker, or a court order issued by a court in the US granting a change of gender marker, you do not need your medical provider to fill out the form (sections B & C).
For any questions on the Certification for Change of Sex Designator, contact Anchorage Driver Licensing at (907) 269-5551 .
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page, which includes a relevant vocabulary list, as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Alaska Court System Self-Help Instructions —has compiled comprehensive self-help instructions for adults and minors seeking name change and gender marker changes in Alaska. You can also contact your county clerk with questions or further assistance.
Identity Alaska: Resources —seeks to create a safe space for all identities to be celebrated and to advance LGBTQ advocacy, education, healthcare, and community. They also provide a variety of resources including information on legal help and amending documents.
Email: frontdesk@identityinc.org
Phone: (907) 865-3247
Alaska Code Citations
Jurisdiction in action for change of name; notice— Alaska Statutes § 09.55 . 010
Alaska Driver’s Licenses— 2 AAC § 90.480
K.L. v. State, Dep't of Admin., Div. of Motor Vehicles, No. 3AN-11-05431-CI (Alaska Super. Ct. Mar. 12, 2012)—state court decision establishing right to gender marker changes on driver’s licenses.
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe