CHANGING IDENTIFICATION DETAILS
Search
CHANGING IDENTIFICATION DETAILS
To change your identification details, such as your name, address, social security number, license number, date of birth, height, weight, hair color, or sex, you will need the following:
Submit application form Application for Driver License, Permit or State Identification Card (Form D1)
A vision test may be required. Visit a local DMV or use this vision form
To get a replacement credential with your new information, pay the current license fee
Provide additional documentation as noted below:
Name
Address
Social Security Number
Date of Birth
Physical Features
Sex
In order to change your name on your Alaska driver license, permit or state identification card, you must submit proof of the change (in person) to us.
If there have been multiple name changes, you must provide documentation to prove the continuity of the names. For example, if the name on your primary document differs from your current name, you must provide additional documentation (marriage certificate, divorce decree, adoption files) to show a link to your current name.
Submitted documents must be an original certified copy. Photocopies and fax copies are not acceptable.
The following items are acceptable to use for a name change:
Marriage Certificate (Must be from Vital Statistics)
Certificate of Dissolution, Divorce or Annulment (Issued by the Court System). This document must specifically state the new legal name.
Court Order
U.S. Passport (Must be current)
Amended birth certificate dated after the last issued credential
Certified adoption papers, marriage certificate, court order or divorce decree
Certificate of Naturalization
Certificate of Name Change
Please Note: By law, you are required to notify us of a name or address change within 30 days of the change (AS 28.05.071)
Please inform the DMV within 30 days if you move or change your mailing address. You can utilize our online system to update the address for each of your vehicles and your driver's license.
Be aware: No notification will be sent to confirm the address change. For your own records, you should:
Vehicles :
Cross out the old address on your registration and write the new one in the designated space, OR
Order a replacement registration here .
Driver License :
To obtain a new license displaying your current address, visit here .
If your Social Security Number (SSN) is recorded incorrectly, it's necessary to provide the correct SSN when applying for or renewing any permit, license, or identification card. This new SSN will be verified against your legal name and date of birth to ensure accuracy.
If your birth date on your DMV records is incorrect, you must present one of the acceptable primary identification documents as proof of your date of birth:
An original or certified copy of a U.S. Birth Certificate (From Vital Statistics)
U.S. passport or Canadian passport (must be current)
U.S. passport card, Issued by Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
An Alaska learner’s permit, driver license or State Identification card
Court order that contains the full name, date of birth and court seal. (Example: Adoption, name change or gender change document. It does NOT include an abstract of criminal or civil conviction.)
Certificate of Citizenship
Certificate of Naturalization
U.S. Government issued Consular Report of Birth Abroad
Passport issued from another country, with appropriate immigration documents.
I-551 – Residence Alien Card issued since 1997. For cards issued prior to 1997, security features should be checked against ID Guide. I-688A or B – Employment Authorization
I-766 – Employment Authorization
SEVIS I-20 Form (Signed by school in Alaska) with expired foreign passport and visa.
To change your height, weight, hair color, and eye color, you only need to submit a completed and signed D1 application to doa.dmv.ads@alaska.gov . To get a replacement credential with your new information, it can be ordered here .
To change your sex on your driver's license or ID card, please also submit Certification for Change of Sex (Form 427) with a D1 application at a local DMV office.
This form must be completed and certified by one of the following:
physician in medicine or osteopathy;
social worker;
psychologist;
professional counselor;
physician assistant; or
advanced nurse practitioner.
High Contrast Color Toggle
Feedback
Alert
We are here to assist you. Feel free to reach out.
Email Address:
Message:
Submit