0
Resources
The following is an often-updated, non-exhaustive list of different resources for LGBTQ+ Oregonians. We welcome input and suggestions from community, especially from trans and queer folks outside of Portland and the I-5 Corridor.
Contact us to add to the list, or if you have updated information about a resource already listed.
General Oregon LGBTQ+ Resources
Beyond These Walls : Serving and advocating for incarcerated LGBTQ+ people.
Bradley Angle LGBTQ Program: Serves anyone in the Portland area affected by domestic violence.
Cascade AIDS Project : Offeringfull-spectrum services to test for HIV and assist those living with it. Also operates PRISM , an LGBTQ+ health, mental health and substance use support clinic in Portland.
Eastern Oregon Center for Independent Living : Provides safe spaces, community building and empowerment for two-spirit and LGBTQIA+ communities in 13 Eastern Oregon counties.
Friendly House Elder Pride Services: Works to enhance the lives of older LGBTQ+ community members through education, advocacy, outreach and resource development.
Crisis Lines
If you or someone you know is having a mental health crisis, here are some resources to help you in Oregon:
Crisis Text Line U.S. Text "OREGON" to 741741
Crisis Text Line: US texto con la palabra "AYUDA" to 741741
Crisis Text Line: US For those who are experiencing the trauma of racism text "CONNECT" to 741741
Native Crisis Text Line text "Native" to 741741
Deaf/Hard of Hearing text "TalkWithUs" to 66746
Lines for Life Text 4-10pm daily "teen2teen" to 839863
Spanish Speakers Text "Hablanos" to 66746
Trevor Project (LGBTQ) Text "START" to 678678
Healthcare and Mental Health
Healthcare is a basic right. Find our list of health and mental health resources here.
Gender-Affirming
Resources for trans and gender-diverse people from Innerbody :
I need legal support
Transgender Law Center
Lambda Legal
Advocates for Trans Equality (A4TE)
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)
I’m exploring my identity
GLAAD
PFLAG
Gender Spectrum
The Trevor Project (for youth)
It Gets Better Project
I need mental or primary health care
Trans Lifeline (peer support for all ages)
The Trevor Project (crisis support for youth)
Inclusive Therapists
National Queer and Trans Therapists of Color Network (NQTTCN)
GLMA (Health Professionals Advancing LGBTQ Equality) (primary care)
Out2Enroll (explains insurance options and enrollment)
I’m a trans youth or student
Gender Spectrum
GLSEN (school-based advocacy)
The Trevor Project
TrevorSpace (LGBTQ community for young people 13-24)
Trans Mentor Project
My child is trans
TransFamilies
PFLAG
Gender Spectrum
Parents for Trans Equality Network
Transgender Children & Youth: Understanding the Basics
I’m a trans elder or senior
SAGE (Services & Advocacy for LGBTQ+ Elders)
Trans Aging Network (part of FORGE)
National Resource Center on LGBT Aging
I’m a trans immigrant or asylum seeker
Transgender Law Center
Rainbow Railroad
Immigration Equality
I’m a trans person with a disability
Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund (DREDF)
Autistic Women & Nonbinary Network
National Queer and Trans Therapists of Color Network (NQTTCN)
I’m a formerly incarcerated trans person
Black and Pink
TGI Justice Project
Transgender Law Center
Survived + Punished
I’m a trans person in a rural area
QueerDoc (telehealth)
Plume (telehealth)
FOLX Health (telehealth)
National Center for LGBTQ Rights - Rural Communities
Where We Call Home: LGBT People in Rural America
I’m a trans sex worker
Lysistrata Mutual Care Collective and Fund
Red Canary Song
SWOP USA (Sex Workers Outreach Project)
I’m a low-income trans person
For the Gworls (mutual aid for rent, surgeries, and travel)
Trans Justice Funding Project
Point of Pride (free binders, surgeries, HRT support)
Black Trans Advocacy Coalition (emergency funds and aid)
I’m a trans veteran or in the military
SPART*A — FAQ about transgender military service
Transgender American Veterans Association
Modern Military Association of America
A4TE - Veterans Resources
I’m a trans athlete
TransAthlete
The Human Rights Campaign - Get the Facts about Bans on Sports Participation By Transgender & Non-Binary Students
Athlete Ally
I’m trans and BIPOC
Black Trans Advocacy Coalition (BTAC)
Trans Women of Color Collective
TransLatina Coalition
Brown Boi Project
National Queer and Trans Therapists of Color Network (NQTTCN)
Trans Women of Color Collective
Relocation Assistance
Are you moving to Oregon, or a recent transplant, because your current state doesn’t support LGBTQ+ rights? Check out some helpful resources.
Legal Assistance
Basic Rights Oregon fights for LGBTQ+ equality, but there may be another organization better able to help you with specific legal requests. Check out these resources.
Youth, Family, and Education
Is your child in need of support at school or connection to LGBTQ+ community? Check out our youth and educational resources.
Culturally Specific Resources
There are many culturally specific resources for BIPOC queer and trans Oregonians. Find them here.
Housing and Shelter
Oregon is experiencing a housing crisis, but resources are available.
Intersex Resources
Intersex Oregonians have unique needs— find support and community with these resources.
Support Groups and Religious Groups
Find community and get the support you need through these groups.
Before contacting us for legal help, please read this:
We are not a direct service organization, meaning we don’t provide legal advice, clinical services, or other direct service supports and we do not have legal professionals or case workers on staff. Basic Rights Oregon is an advocacy organization that can provide information and referrals to our partners. Contact info@basicrights.org for help finding the appropriate resource to meet your needs.