Governor Mikie Sherrill &nbsp&#8226;&nbsp Lt. Governor Dr. Dale G. Caldwell
NJHome |
Services |
Departments/Agencies |
FAQs
Search
Translate
Translator Disclaimer
DOBI Home
About the Department
Consumer Information
Consumer Assistance - Inquiries/Complaints
Banking Division
Insurance Division
Real Estate Commission
State-Based Exchange/
Get Covered New Jersey
Licensee Search
Rules, Orders, Bulletins
Applications and Forms
Health Care Providers
Press Releases/Newsletters
Topics A to Z
Grants, RFPs and Budget
Contact the Department
Home > Consumer Information > NJDOBI Consumer Assistance
How to Request Assistance
Consumer Inquiries and Complaints
We at the Department of Banking and Insurance and Real Estate Commission are ready to answer any questions or inquiries you may have or open a formal complaint via our Consumer Inquiry and Response Center (CIRC) .
You may contact the unit in several ways - our most convenient way is filing an ONLINE COMPLAINT ( Banking - Insurance - Real Estate ). You may also contact the unit by telephone, mail, fax or in person.
When we receive your inquiry or complaint, it is then logged into our database and a tracking number is assigned for future reference.
Listed below are the ways to contact us. Whether it is a question or a formal complaint, you will receive an acknowledgement to your inquiry.
For Inquiries and/or Assistance Filing a Complaint Including the Office of the Insurance Ombudsman
Telephone:
609-292-7272 or our Consumer Hotline 1-800-446-7467
(8:30 am to 5:00 pm EST Monday through Friday)
How to File a Formal Complaint
Choose a
Complaint Type:
Banking Formal Complaint Form
Insurance Formal Complaint Form
Real Estate Formal Complaint Form
Fax:
609-777-0508 or 609-292-2431
Mail:
NJDOBI,
PO Box 471,
Trenton, NJ 08625-0471
Banking Complaints/Inquiries
Instructions: Complete the online form at right and submit documentation if necessary
Banking - File Complaint ONLINE
Instructions: Print the PDF form at right and fax or mail (contact information)
Banking Complaint Form (MAIL/FAX)
Important Note: Various types of financial services providers (banks, credit unions, etc.) are regulated by different governmental agencies. In order to expedite the handling of your complaint or inquiry, you should file it with the agency that regulates the provider that gave rise to your complaint or inquiry.
The New Jersey Division of Banking has no jurisdiction with respect to federally-chartered banks (t hey may use the word "National" or "N.A." in the name)
or federally-chartered savings and loans or savings banks (they may use the word "federal", "F.A." or "F.S.B." in the name) .
Requests for assistance or inquiries regarding a national bank or f ederal savings and loan or savings bank , even if it is located in New Jersey, should be directed to:
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
Customer Assistance Group
1301 McKinney Street, Suite 3450
Houston, TX 77010-9050
Phone: 1-800-613-6743
Web site: www.helpwithmybank.gov
The New Jersey Division of Banking has no jurisdiction with respect to federally-chartered credit unions . (They may use the word "federal" in its name.)
Requests for assistance or inquiries regarding a federally-chartered credit union, even if it is located in New Jersey, should be directed to:
National Credit Union Administration
Region II
1775 Duke Street, Suite 4206
Alexandria, VA 22314-3437
Phone: 1-800-755-1030 or 703-519-4600
Web site: www.ncua.gov
More Consumer Banking information...
Insurance Complaints/Inquiries
For General Insurance Complaints (auto, health, home, life, long-term care, etc).:
Instructions: Complete the online form at right and submit documentation if necessary
Insurance - File Complaint ONLINE
Instructions: Print the PDF form at right and fax or mail (contact information)
Insurance Complaint Form (MAIL/FAX)
Important Note: Formal complaints involving all lines of insurance related problems need to be submitted to our office in writing . All requests for assistance or inquiries must include the company name/agent's name , the policy/certificate number(s) , any documentation that will substantiate your position, and a brief description of the problems that you have encountered. If applicable, please include the following with your complaint: copy of the ID card, copy of the Policy Declarations page, nonrenewal notice, premium increase notice, and/or claim denial. Be sure to use dark ink and do not highlight. Otherwise, important data may not be legible.
For Managed Care Medical Complaints, including HMOs and PPOs:
To comment on Health Insurance Rate Increases:
To comment on rate increases for Individual Health Coverage (IHC) or Small Employer Health Benefits (SEH) insurance policies , e-mail RateReviewComments@dobi.nj.gov . This e-mail address may also be found on all consumer disclosures related to New Jersey's rate increases on https://ratereview.healthcare.gov/ .
Please Note: If you are filing a complaint about your health insurance rates, you must do so using the Insurance Complaints/Inquiries process .
More Consumer Insurance information...
Real Estate Complaints/Inquiries
Instructions: Complete the online form at right and submit documentation if necessary
Real Estate - File Complaint ONLINE
Instructions: Print the PDF form at right and fax or mail (contact information)
Real Estate Complaint Form (MAIL/FAX)
Important Notes:
Inquiries, complaints and requests for assistance regarding a TIMESHARE PROPERTY whether located within or outside of New Jersey should be directed to the Bureau of Subdivided Land Sales Control of the New Jersey Real Estate Commission .
Inquiries regarding OTHER TYPES OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (such as condominiums, cooperatives and other non timeshare common interest ownership communities) located WITHIN New Jersey should be directed to the Planned Real Estate Section of the Department of Community Affairs .
Real Estate Appraisers are regulated by the Department of Law and Public Safety, Division of Consumer Protection .
More Consumer Real Estate information...
Reasonable Accommodations for Individuals with Disabilities
The Department of Banking and Insurance is committed to ensuring that qualified individuals with disabilities have an equal opportunity to access, participate in and receive the benefits of the Department's services, programs and activities.
In accordance with applicable law, the Department provides reasonable accommodations and makes reasonable modifications to its practices and procedures, to ensure that qualified individuals with disabilities are able to access services and enjoy benefits from the Department to the same extent as those provided to individuals without disabilities.
If you have a physical or mental impairment or condition and need a modification, adjustment or other assistance to access and/or participate in the Department's services and programs, or otherwise effectively communicate or interact with the Department, please contact our Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Medical Accommodations Coordinator, Lisa Clapp, whose contact information is below:
Lisa Clapp
ADA and Medical Accommodations Coordinator
New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance
20 West State Street
P.O. Box 325
Trenton, NJ 08625
Email: lisa.clapp@dobi.nj.gov
Phone: (609) 940-7337
Notice of Rights Under Federal Conscience and Nondiscrimination Laws
The Department of Banking and Insurance complies with applicable Federal health care conscience protection statutes, including the Weldon Amendment, e.g., Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, Public Law 117&ndash;328, div. H, title V General Provisions, section 507(d)(1) (Dec. 29, 2022); and Sections 1303(b)(1)(A), (b)(4), and (c)(2)(A), and 1411(b)(5)(A), and 1553 of the ACA, 42 U.S.C. 18023(b)(1)(A), (b)(4), and (c)(2)(A), 18081(b)(5)(A), and 18113. You may have rights as a provider, patient, or other individual under these Federal statutes, which prohibit coercion or other discrimination on the basis of conscience, whether based on religious beliefs or moral convictions, in certain circumstances. If you believe that the Department of Banking and Insurance has violated any of these provisions, you may file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights, electronically through the Office for Civil Rights Complaint Portal, available at https://www.hhs.gov/ocr/complaints/index.html or by mail or phone at: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue SW, Room 509F, HHH Building, Washington, DC 20201, 1&ndash;800&ndash;368&ndash;1019, 800&ndash;537&ndash;7697 (TDD) or by email at ocrmail@hhs.gov . Complaint forms and more information about Federal conscience protection laws are available at https://www.hhs.gov/conscience .
OPRA is
a state law that was enacted to give the public greater access to government
records maintained by public agencies in New Jersey.
You will need to download the latest version of Adobe Acrobat Reader in order to correctly view and print PDF (Portable Document Format) files from this web site.
NJHome |
Services A to Z |
Departments/Agencies |
FAQs |
Contact Us
Privacy Notice |
Legal Statement |
Accessibility Statement
State of New Jersey
New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance