Skip to content
IDENTITY HORMONES & Healthcare™
Where You Can Be You
Personalized Healthcare for Everyone with a Focus on the LGBTQIA+ community
Schedule an Evaluation
IDENTITY HORMONES & HEALTHCARE™
Redefining Healthcare
With a vision to open a safe and friendly space dedicated to serving the healthcare needs of the LGBTQIA+ community and its allies. Identity Hormones™ is a premier specialty clinic offering exceptional medical care for the LGBTQIA+ community and its allies throughout the Phoenix, Denver, and Salt Lake City areas.
Healthcare should be easy, convenient and center around the unique needs of each individual. We give excellent care by using the latest evidence-based medicine to tailor treatment to meet your individual specific needs. We are a full service specialty clinic and we know your time is valuable, so we make it easy and convenient by offering quick walk-in visits.
Schedule an Evaluation
Identity hormones
Our Services
More Services
Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy
Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy (GAHT) – sometimes referred to as hormone replacement
therapy (HRT) aims to align the characteristics of an individual with their gender identity. We
follow an informed consent model to give you the mainstay of GAHT: intramuscular injections
of bioidentical formulations of testosterone or estrogen.
Testosterone Replacement
Guys don’t like to talk about low testosterone, but it’s time to. The body slowing down its hormonal production is a natural part of aging. But that doesn’t mean you can’t be your full you. Our proven testosterone-boosting methods work for over 12,000 men a year. Will you be one of them?
HIV and PrEP
HIV and PrEP -PrEP , or pre-exposure prophylaxis, is an HIV prevention method in which people who don&#8217;t have HIV take HIV medicine daily to reduce their risk of getting HIV if they are exposed to the virus.
Concierge Medicine
We are more than just a hormone clinic. We offer our patients a wide array of services to help optimize your health including Erectile Dysfunction medications, Weight Management solutions, IV Therapies, Joint Injections, HIV care, PrEP, STD testing/treatment, and more.
Identity Hormones & Healthcare
Testimonials
Follow Us On:
Facebook
Instagram