Go to Content
Gender-Affirming Care
Planned Parenthood believes everyone deserves access to high-quality, affordable care. We've expanded our telehealth services to include gender-affirming care with same-day and next-day appointments often available!
Call Now
Book An Appointment
Learn More
We offer gender-affirming care using an informed consent model. That means you do not need to participate in therapy or get a referral to receive your hormone therapy. We support our patients in making the decision that is best for them.
Patients i n Minnesota must be at least 16 years old and post-puberty to qualify for this service. You’ll need to bring a parent or guardian to your first visit, if you are under the age of 18.
Patients in Iowa and South Dakota must be at least 18-years-old to qualify for this service. Patients in Nebraska must be at least 19-years-old to qualify for this service.
FAQs
What happens at my first visit?
At your first visit, a Planned Parenthood provider will:
Review your medical history
Review our informed consent form with you
Measure your weight and blood pressure
Discuss your transition goals and create a care plan with you
Draw lab tests
Explain how to take hormones and answer any questions you might have
What should I bring to my first visit?
Please bring your photo ID, medical insurance information, and any lab test results done in the last 6 months. If you are currently prescribed hormone therapy from another provider, please bring those health records as well.
When will I be prescribed the hormones?
If there are no pressing health concerns or obvious contraindications (reason to withhold service) during your initial visit, a provider will prescribe your hormones to a pharmacy of your choice for you to pick up.
How much does this service cost?
With or without insurance, Planned Parenthood is here to provide care, no matter what.
We're in-network for most insurance plans and accept a variety of other payment options to meet your needs. It's a good idea to contact your health insurance company directly before your visit to find out if this service is covered. They can tell you if you'll need to pay for anything out-of-pocket.
If you don't have insurance, our expert staff can help you figure out cost and payments. We encourage you to discuss your options before your visit.
Call Now
Do I need a letter from a mental health provider?
No. Planned Parenthood uses an informed consent model, which means we do not require a note from a mental health therapist to receive hormone therapy.
We believe when our patients are fully informed, they can make the best decision for themselves and their bodies.
If I am already using hormone therapy, can I transfer my care to Planned Parenthood?
Yes! You'll need to schedule an initial hormone therapy visit so a provider can go through our informed consent with you.
Be sure to bring information about your current hormone therapy and any relevant lab results from your outside provider. Current lab test results are important because they may help us avoid duplicate tests and delays in your prescription.
I’m a minor. Can I still receive hormone therapy?
Patients in Minnesota must be at least 16 years old and post-puberty to qualify for this service. You’ll need to bring a parent or guardian to your first visit if you are under the age of 18.
Learn More
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all