Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Falls Community Health
High-quality, community-based, affordable care.
Falls Community Health provides primary care, dental services and other patient services. Visit us at our downtown clinic or three school-based locations throughout Sioux Falls.
Payment options at Falls Community Health
We make your primary care affordable and easy to navigate with several billing options:
Traditional health insurance
Medicare and Medicaid
Sliding scale discounts *
Custom payment plans when needed
* For the most affordable care, show proof of income with tax forms, a pay stub, or other official documentation.
More payment information
Main Clinic Location
Find out more about the services offered at the downtown Falls Community Health Center.
School-Based Clinics
Falls Community Health also offers community health options at three local elementary schools: Hawthorne, Hayward and Terry Redlin.
Medical Services
Falls Community Health offer a variety of services including primary care, X-Rays, immunizations, and more.
Dental Services
Falls Community Health Dental Services include routine and emergency care, along with preventative care.
Patient Information and Payments
Everything you need to know about visiting your Falls Community Health provider including services, what you'll be asked at the office, and how to pay for your visit.
Laboratory Testing
The Public Health Laboratory provides clinical laboratory testing for patients. It also serves businesses, the state, and private citizens.
Homeless Outreach
The Falls Community Health Homeless Outreach program provides comprehensive support to individuals experiencing homelessness.
Measles Information
Learn more about measles prevention and community health.
Protect Your Parts
HIV/STI Prevention Education & Screening
Schedule A Clinic Appointment
Falls Community Health: Schedule an appointment with one of our medical providers.
Falls Community Health Mission
Working together to protect and promote health and well-being in Sioux Falls.
Take a Tour
Watch the video below for a tour of our clinic and to meet some of our staff.
This Health Center is a Health Center Program Grantee under 42 U.S.C. 254b, and a Deemed Public Health Service Employee and a FTCA Deemed Facility under 42 U.S.C 233(g)-(n)
Quick Links
Patient Portal / Pay Your Bill
Schedule an Appointment Now
Contact Us
Back to top