Skip to main content
Temporary unavailability of Enterprise Justice and limited capabilities of eFile & Serve, Public Portal, Vermont Digital Evidence Portal and Attorney Licensing Portal on Thursday, September 24. Read more>>
Vermont Judiciary to Launch New Online Payment System for Judicial Bureau Fines. Read more>>
Beware of Scams: Fraudulent Messages Targeting Vermont Drivers. Read more>>
The Orleans County Courthouse at 247 Main Street in Newport is temporarily closed to the public. Court assistance and forms are available at the Orleans Criminal Courthouse located next door at 217 Main Street. All hearings will be held in person at 217 Main Street unless you are notified otherwise.
Chittenden Probate Division
Probate Division
175 Main Street , Burlington , VT 05401
p. 802-651-1518
Get Directions
Hours of Operation
Monday - Friday 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. except during observed holidays. Closed the second Tuesday of each month, noon to 4:00 p.m., for in service training.
About the Court
Email: ChittendenUnit@vtcourts.gov
By using the email address above, you agree to the Vermont Superior Trial Court Email Policy .
See list of observed holidays when all Vermont courts are closed
The Vermont Judiciary supports the right of all persons, including those with disabilities, to enjoy access to the facilities and services offered by the judicial branch. Visit our Americans with Disabilities Act webpage to view the Judiciary's ADA policies and to ask for an accommodation to use a Vermont state court facility or a Vermont state court service.
Right to an Interpreter
If you do not speak English as your primary language and have a limited ability to read, speak, write, or understand English, then you have a right to a court-appointed interpreter, and the Vermont Judiciary will provide you with an interpreter at no cost to you so that you can access or participate in court proceedings or services.
To request an interpreter visit our Language Access webpage.
Court Staff
Presiding Judge:
Honorable John Pacht
Superior Judge:
Honorable Gregory Glennon
Court Operations Manager:
Naomi Henderson
Clerk of Court:
Chasity Stoots-Fonberg
Probate Register:
Anne Straw