Ayuda
Cases & Advocacy
Doe v. Ladapo
Discrimination > Healthcare
Youth > Transgender Youth
Status: Open
Outcome: Pending
Location: Florida
Jurisdiction + Case Number: US District Court for the Northern District of Florida 4:23-cv-00114
Case Documents
Plaintiffs' Third Amended Complaint
Order Granting Preliminary Injunction
Plaintiffs' Post-Trial Memo
District Court Final Judgment
Eleventh Circuit Defendants' Opening Brief
Eleventh Circuit Plaintiffs' Response Brief
Eleventh Circuit Defendants' Reply Brief
In 2023, Florida passed SB254 which bans all transgender medical care for minors, making the provision of such care a felony crime. NCLR, along with GLAD, HRC Foundation, Southern Legal Counsel, and Lowenstein Sandler, filed a case on behalf of transgender youth and their parents to challenge the ban on the grounds that it violated the Equal Protection Rights of trans youth and the Due Process Right of parents to oversee their child’s medical care. In the Third Amended Complaint, we also added adult transgender plaintiffs who faced restrictions on their access to medical care pursuant to Florida law.
Plaintiffs won a preliminary injunction in June 2023, preventing the law from taking effect. A year later, Plaintiffs also won our case at trial. Defendants appealed the final judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, where the court paused the lower court’s judgment and allowed the ban to go back into effect. We are now awaiting the decision of the Eleventh Circuit and the Supreme Court decision in U.S. v. Skrmetti.
Homepage
About Us
Mission &#038; History
Who We Are
Blog: Our Voices
Information and Briefings
Newsletter: The Brief
Press &#038; Media
Financials &#038; Reports
Jobs &#038; Opportunities
Our Work
Born Perfect
Discrimination
“Don’t Say Gay or Trans”
Education
Elders
Employment
Faith &#038; Religion
Healthcare
Housing &#038; Public Accommodations
Sports
Racial &#038; Economic Justice
Criminalization &#038; Incarceration
Legal Aid &#038; Legal Services
Race &#038; Poverty
Rural Communities
Youth
Education
Foster Care
Juvenile Justice
Transgender Youth
Relationships &#038; Family
Marriage &#038; Relationships
Parenting
Reproductive Justice
Hogar {Home}
Urvashi Vaid LGBTQ Women’s Survey
Cases &#038; Advocacy
Legislation &#038; Policy
HIV Resources
Get Involved
Donate Now
NCLR Merch
Other Ways to Give
Other Ways to Support Our Work
Events
Get Help
Obtenga Ayuda
Resources and Publications
Obtenga Ayuda
Contact Us
Donate
Pride Community Center of North Central Florida
The Pride Community Center of North Central Florida offers safe spaces, resources, services and events to foster and enhance the well-being and visibility of LGBTQ+ people in North Central Florida. Visibility changes minds. Here in North Central Florida, LGBTQ+ people deserve access to safe spaces where they can not only express themselves, but where they can also be a part of a community. Come join us.
ACLU of Florida
The mission of the ACLU of Florida is to protect, defend, strengthen, and promote the constitutional rights and liberties of all people in Florida. We envision a fair and just Florida, where all people are free, equal under the law, and live with dignity.
QLatinx
QLatinx is a grassroots community-led racial, social, and gender justice organization dedicated to the advancement and empowerment of Orlando’s LGBTQ+ Latinx community. QLatinx is committed to building a supportive infrastructure, addressing inequity, promoting inclusionary QLatinx aims to deepen the political consciousness of LGBTQ+ and Latinx individuals about intersections and complexities of institutional, interpersonal, and internalized forms of oppression. This work includes empowering local LGBTQ+ leadership to become cognizant of gender and racial inequities with the LGBTQ+ community and in relation to cisgender populations.
Community Spring
Community Spring is a grassroots organization dedicated to economic justice. The two pillars of our work are income and power: income to meet people&#8217;s needs and power to reshape the systems that keep them down.
Joy Metropolitan Community Church
Joy MCC is the spiritual home to a multi-cultural, inclusive, and diverse community of faith. We are rooted in the life, ministry, and teachings of Jesus. We experience a vibrant spirituality that is positive, practical, and progressive. We’ve always been a totally open and affirming church. We welcome the full participation of people of all races, cultures, ages, abilities, spiritual backgrounds, sexual orientations, and gender identities. We share a deep sense of community where our diversity is celebrated, not merely tolerated.
Southern Legal Counsel
Southern Legal Counsel, Inc. (SLC) is a Florida statewide not-for-profit public interest law firm that is committed to the ideal of equal justice for all and the attainment of basic human and civil rights. SLC developed its Transgender Rights Initiative to fill a gap in access to justice for Florida&#8217;s transgender community, including in areas such as access to legal authenticity, access to safe and affirming school and work environments, access to medically necessary healthcare, and more. SLC&#8217;s Trans Rights Initiative protects the rights of Florida&#8217;s LGBTQ+ community utilizing federal impact litigation, policy advocacy, and individual representation. SLC has litigated many of the recent federal cases against the state of Florida, and has successfully overturned the Medicaid Ban on gender-affirming care (Dekker v. Weida); permanently enjoined the medical care bans for minors and restrictions for adults created by SB 254 and the Boards of Medicine rules (Doe v. Ladapo); preliminarily enjoined the pronoun ban for transgender teachers in Florida&#8217;s public schools; and more.
Orlando Youth Alliance
Since 1990, the Orlando Youth Alliance (OYA) has been providing safe spaces for LGBTQ youth in Central Florida. Their coverage area includes metro Orlando, but also spans out to include the rural counties surrounding Orlando. In 2008, they created a chapter in Lakeland, Florida (Polk County). OYA oversees the highly successful Polk Pride Festival which attracts over 6,000 people annually.
Come Out With Pride
The mission of Come Out With Pride Orlando is to cultivate visibility, authenticity, and acceptance by curating inclusive experiences that celebrate and embody the spirit of queer resilience.
Equality Florida
Equality Florida is the largest civil rights organization dedicated to securing full equality for Florida’s lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) community. We&#8217;re changing Florida through lobbying, grassroots organizing, education, and coalition building — so that no one suffers harassment or discrimination on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity or expression.