Georgia Code Title 9. Civil Practice § 9-15-2
Current as of March 28, 2024 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
(a)(1) When any party, plaintiff or defendant, in any action or proceeding held in
any court in this state is unable to pay any deposit, fee, or other cost which is
normally required in the court, if the party shall subscribe an affidavit to the effect
that because of his indigence he is unable to pay the costs, the party shall be relieved
from paying the costs and his rights shall be the same as if he had paid the costs.
(2) Any other party at interest or his agent or attorney may contest the truth of
an affidavit of indigence by verifying affirmatively under oath that the same is untrue.
The issue thereby formed shall be heard and determined by the court, under the rules
of the court. The judgment of the court on all issues of fact concerning the ability of a party
to pay costs or give bond shall be final.
(b) In the absence of a traverse affidavit contesting the truth of an affidavit of
indigence, the court may inquire into the truth of the affidavit of indigence. After a hearing, the court may order the costs to be paid if it finds that the deposit,
fee, or other costs can be paid and, if the costs are not paid within the time permitted
in such order, may deny the relief sought.
(c) The adjudication of the issue of indigence shall not affect a decision on the
merits of the pending action.
(d) When a civil action is presented for filing under this Code section by a party
who is not represented by an attorney, the clerk of court shall not file the matter
but shall present the complaint or other initial pleading to a judge of the court.
The judge shall review the pleading and, if the judge determines that the pleading
shows on its face such a complete absence of any justiciable issue of law or fact
that it cannot be reasonably believed that the court could grant any relief against
any party named in the pleading, then the judge shall enter an order denying filing
of the pleading. If the judge does not so find, then the judge shall enter an order allowing filing
and shall return the pleading to the clerk for filing as in other cases. An order denying filing shall be appealable in the same manner as an order dismissing
an action.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Georgia Code Title 9. Civil Practice § 9-15-2 - last updated March 28, 2024 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/ga/title-9-civil-practice/ga-code-sect-9-15-2/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Georgia Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
When Campaign Donations Become Illegal
A Legal Bodyslam? Federal Judge Approves ESPN’s Motion To Intervene in Civil Suit Against WWE
760,000 ACA Enrollees Were Dropped Over ‘Fraud’ Claims. Here’s What Consumers Need to Know.
SEC Opens Door for Crypto-Style Trading of U.S. Stocks
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat