For e-Filing only
NHJB-2175-FPe (03/26/2026) Page 1 of 3
1. Petitioner name: Telephone:
Residential address: Street City State Zip code
Mailing address (if different): Street City State Zip code
Relationship of petitioner to minor/adult:
Co-Petitioner name: Telephone:
Residential address: Street City State Zip code
Mailing address (if different): Street City State Zip code
Relationship of co-petitioner to minor/adult:
2. Attorney name:
Firm name: Bar ID #:
Mailing address: Street City State Zip code
Telephone: E-mail:
3. Person whose name is to be changed:
Current name: Telephone:
Residential address: Street City State Zip code
Mailing address (if different): Street City State Zip code
Date of birth: See Name Change Confidential Information Instructions
and Confidential Information Sheet (NHJB-2878-DFPe)
Place of birth:
4. The petitioner requests that the name (First, middle and last names)
be changed to (First, middle and last names)
in accordance with the laws of the State of New Hampshire and for the following reasons:
THE STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
JUDICIAL BRANCH
https://www.courts.nh.gov
Court Name:
Case Name:
Case Number:
(if known)
Name change of
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME
FOR ADULT MINOR
Case Name: Name change of
Case Number:
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME
NHJB-2175-FPe (03/26/2026) Page 2 of 3
5. Are there any pending adult or minor guardianship, marriage dissolution, domestic relations,
paternity, legitimization, parenting or other legal proceedings affecting this minor/adult?
Yes No
If yes, provide case information (such as court name, case number):
Are there any pending juvenile, domestic violence or adoption cases affecting this minor/adult?
Yes No
If yes, provide case information (such as court name, case number) on the
Confidential Information Sheet (NHJB-2878-DFPe).
6. If a minor name change, list any living parents whose rights have not been terminated:
Name of parent A:
Mailing address: Street City State Zip code
Name of parent B:
Mailing address: Street City State Zip code
7. Select all paragraphs that apply to the person whose name is being changed:
i. I am a person who is incarcerated, or who is on probation or parole. I understand that,
when instructed by the court, I must have the sheriff’s department serve a copy of this
petition on the department of corrections and to the prosecuting agency.
ii. I am a person who is required to register as a sexual offender or an offender against
children as defined by RSA 651-B and I am no longer subject to supervision by the
department of corrections. I understand that, when instructed by the court, I must have
the sheriff’s department serve a copy of this petition on the department of safety and to the
prosecuting agency.
iii. I am a person who has been convicted of a violent felony or a crime against a child as
defined by RSA 547:3-i, II. I understand that, when instructed by the court, I must have the
sheriff’s department serve a copy of this petition on the prosecuting agency.
I understand that failure to comply with above notification requirements shall cause any order to
be invalid.
If any of the above boxes i-iii are checked, the following must be completed:
Name of prosecuting agency: (i.e. Attorney General’s Office, County Attorney’s Office, etc.)
Mailing address: Street City State Zip code
Multiple prosecuting agencies: Additional Information Page (NHJB-3075-DFPe) attached.
The above paragraphs are not applicable to this name change.
8. I understand that proof of identity must be filed with this petition in order for it to be granted. Proof
of identity must show the current name and residence of the person whose name is being
changed.
Case Name: Name change of
Case Number:
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME
NHJB-2175-FPe (03/26/2026) Page 3 of 3
Verification: I verify the truth and accuracy of all facts alleged within this document to the best of my
belief and further verify that all facts contained in this document are alleged in good faith. By affixing
my electronic signature to this document I acknowledge my understanding that any false statements
made in this document are punishable as perjury which may include a fine or imprisonment or both.
/s/
Petitioner name Petitioner signature Date
Petitioner address City State Zip code
Petitioner telephone Petitioner E-mail
Verification: I verify the truth and accuracy of all facts alleged within this document to the best of my
belief and further verify that all facts contained in this document are alleged in good faith. By affixing
my electronic signature to this document I acknowledge my understanding that any false statements
made in this document are punishable as perjury which may include a fine or imprisonment or both.
/s/
Co-Petitioner name Co-Petitioner signature Date
Co-Petitioner address City State Zip code
Co-Petitioner telephone Co-Petitioner E-mail
FOR COURT USE
ORDER
This Petition for Name Change and accompanying information has been reviewed.
Accordingly, the court orders that: