LEGISLATIVE BILL 574
Approved by the Governor May 22, 2023
Introduced by Kauth, 31; Aguilar, 35; Albrecht, 17; Bostelman, 23; Brewer, 43;
Clements, 2; DeKay, 40; Dorn, 30; Dover, 19; Erdman, 47;
Halloran, 33; Hardin, 48; Holdcroft, 36; Hughes, 24; Ibach, 44;
Jacobson, 42; Linehan, 39; Lippincott, 34; Lowe, 37; McDonnell,
5; Murman, 38; Sanders, 45; von Gillern, 4; Slama, 1; Hansen, B.,
16.
A BILL FOR AN ACT relating to public health and welfare; to amend sections
38-192, 38-193, and 38-196, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, and
sections 38-178, 38-179, 38-2021, and 38-2894, Revised Statutes Cumulative
Supplement, 2022; to adopt the Preborn Child Protection Act and the Let
Them Grow Act; to provide for discipline under the Uniform Credentialing
Act; to harmonize provisions; to provide operative dates; to provide
severability; to repeal the original sections; and to declare an
emergency.
Be it enacted by the people of the State of Nebraska,
Section 1. Sections 1 to 6 of this act shall be known and may be cited as
the Preborn Child Protection Act.
Sec. 2. The Preborn Child Protection Act only applies to intrauterine
pregnancies.
Sec. 3. For purposes of the Preborn Child Protection Act:
(1)(a) Abortion means the prescription or use of any instrument, device,
medicine, drug, or substance to or upon a woman known to be pregnant with the
specific intent of terminating the life of her preborn child.
(b) Abortion shall under no circumstances be interpreted to include:
(i) Removal of an ectopic pregnancy;
(ii) Removal of the remains of a preborn child who has already died;
(iii) An act done with the intention to save the life or preserve the
health of the preborn child;
(iv) The accidental or unintentional termination of the life of a preborn
child; or
(v) During the practice of in vitro fertilization or another assisted
reproductive technology, the termination or loss of the life of a preborn child
who is not being carried inside a woman's body;
(2) Gestational age means the age of a preborn child as calculated from
the first day of the last menstrual period of the pregnant woman;
(3)(a) Medical emergency means any condition which, in reasonable medical
judgment, so complicates the medical condition of the pregnant woman as to
necessitate the termination of her pregnancy to avert her death or for which a
delay in terminating her pregnancy will create a serious risk of substantial
and irreversible physical impairment of a major bodily function.
(b) No condition shall be deemed a medical emergency if based on a claim
or diagnosis that the woman will engage in conduct which would result in her
death or in substantial and irreversible physical impairment of a major bodily
function;
(4) Preborn child means an individual living member of the species homo
sapiens, throughout the embryonic and fetal stages of development to full
gestation and childbirth;
(5) Pregnant means the condition of having a living preborn child inside
one's body; and
(6) Reasonable medical judgment means a medical judgment that could be
made by a reasonably prudent physician, knowledgeable about the case and the
treatment possibilities with respect to the medical conditions involved.
Sec. 4. (1) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, a
physician, before performing or inducing an abortion, shall first:
(a) Determine, using standard medical practice, the gestational age of the
preborn child; and
(b) Record in the pregnant woman's medical record:
(i) The method used to determine the gestational age of the preborn child;
and
(ii) The date, time, and results of such determination.
(2) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any physician to perform or induce an abortion:
(a) Before fulfilling the requirements of subsection (1) of this section;
or
(b) If the probable gestational age of the preborn child has been
determined to be twelve or more weeks.
(3) It shall not be a violation of subsection (1) or (2) of this section
for a physician to perform or induce an abortion in the case of:
(a) Medical emergency;
(b) Pregnancy resulting from sexual assault as defined in section 28-319
or 28-319.01; or
(c) Pregnancy resulting from incest as defined in section 28-703.
Sec. 5. (1) If a physician performs or induces an abortion because of a
LB574
2023
LB574
2023
-1-
medical emergency pursuant to subdivision (3)(a) of section 4 of this act, the
physician shall certify in writing that a medical emergency existed and explain
the medical emergency in the written certification. The physician shall keep
the written certification in the woman's medical record.
(2) If a physician performs or induces an abortion in the case of sexual
assault or incest pursuant to subdivision (3)(b) or (c) of section 4 of this
act, the physician shall certify in writing that the abortion was performed
because of sexual assault or incest and that the physician complied with all
applicable duties imposed by section 28-902. The physician shall keep the
written certification in the woman's medical record.
Sec. 6. No woman upon whom an abortion is attempted, induced, or
performed shall be liable for a violation of the Preborn Child Protection Act.
Sec. 7. Section 38-178, Revised Statutes Cumulative Supplement, 2022, is
amended to read:
38-178 Except as otherwise provided in sections 38-1,119 to 38-1,123, a
credential to practice a profession may be issued subject to discipline,
denied, refused renewal, or have other disciplinary measures taken against it
in accordance with section 38-183, 38-185, or 38-186 on any of the following
grounds:
(1) Misrepresentation of material facts in procuring or attempting to
procure a credential;
(2) Immoral or dishonorable conduct evidencing unfitness to practice the
profession in this state;
(3) Abuse of, dependence on, or active addiction to alcohol, any
controlled substance, or any mind-altering substance;
(4) Failure to comply with a treatment program or an aftercare program,
including, but not limited to, a program entered into under the Licensee
Assistance Program established pursuant to section 38-175;
(5) Conviction of (a) a misdemeanor or felony under Nebraska law or
federal law, or (b) a crime in any jurisdiction which, if committed within this
state, would have constituted a misdemeanor or felony under Nebraska law and
which has a rational connection with the fitness or capacity of the applicant
or credential holder to practice the profession;
(6) Practice of the profession (a) fraudulently, (b) beyond its authorized
scope, (c) with gross incompetence or gross negligence, or (d) in a pattern of
incompetent or negligent conduct;
(7) Practice of the profession while the ability to practice is impaired
by alcohol, controlled substances, drugs, mind-altering substances, physical
disability, mental disability, or emotional disability;
(8) Physical or mental incapacity to practice the profession as evidenced
by a legal judgment or a determination by other lawful means;
(9) Illness, deterioration, or disability that impairs the ability to
practice the profession;
(10) Permitting, aiding, or abetting the practice of a profession or the
performance of activities requiring a credential by a person not credentialed
to do so;
(11) Performing or offering to perform scleral tattooing as defined in
section 38-10,172 by a person not credentialed to do so;
(12) Having had his or her credential denied, refused renewal, limited,
suspended, revoked, or disciplined in any manner similar to section 38-196 by
another state or jurisdiction based upon acts by the applicant or credential
holder similar to acts described in this section;
(13) Use of untruthful, deceptive, or misleading statements in
advertisements, including failure to comply with section 38-124;
(14) Conviction of fraudulent or misleading advertising or conviction of a
violation of the Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act;
(15) Distribution of intoxicating liquors, controlled substances, or drugs
for any other than lawful purposes;
(16) Violations of the Uniform Credentialing Act or the rules and
regulations relating to the particular profession;
(17) Unlawful invasion of the field of practice of any profession
regulated by the Uniform Credentialing Act which the credential holder is not
credentialed to practice;
(18) Violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act or any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to the act;
(19) Failure to file a report required by section 38-1,124, 38-1,125, or
71-552;
(20) Failure to maintain the requirements necessary to obtain a
credential;
(21) Violation of an order issued by the department;
(22) Violation of an assurance of compliance entered into under section
38-1,108;
(23) Failure to pay an administrative penalty;
(24) Unprofessional conduct as defined in section 38-179;
(25) Violation of the Automated Medication Systems Act; or
(26) Failure to comply with section 38-1,147; or .
(27) Violation of the Preborn Child Protection Act.
Sec. 8. Section 38-179, Revised Statutes Cumulative Supplement, 2022, is
amended to read:
38-179 For purposes of section 38-178, unprofessional conduct means any
departure from or failure to conform to the standards of acceptable and
prevailing practice of a profession or the ethics of the profession, regardless
of whether a person, consumer, or entity is injured, or conduct that is likely
LB574
2023
LB574
2023
-2-
to deceive or defraud the public or is detrimental to the public interest,
including, but not limited to:
(1) Receipt of fees on the assurance that an incurable disease can be
permanently cured;
(2) Division of fees, or agreeing to split or divide the fees, received
for professional services with any person for bringing or referring a consumer
other than (a) with a partner or employee of the applicant or credential holder
or his or her office or clinic, (b) with a landlord of the applicant or
credential holder pursuant to a written agreement that provides for payment of
rent based on gross receipts, or (c) with a former partner or employee of the
applicant or credential holder based on a retirement plan or separation
agreement;
(3) Obtaining any fee for professional services by fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation, including, but not limited to, falsification of third-party
claim documents;
(4) Cheating on or attempting to subvert the credentialing examination;
(5) Assisting in the care or treatment of a consumer without the consent
of such consumer or his or her legal representative;
(6) Use of any letters, words, or terms, either as a prefix, affix, or
suffix, on stationery, in advertisements, or otherwise, indicating that such
person is entitled to practice a profession for which he or she is not
credentialed;
(7) Performing, procuring, or aiding and abetting in the performance or
procurement of a criminal abortion;
(8) Knowingly disclosing confidential information except as otherwise
permitted by law;
(9) Commission of any act of sexual abuse, misconduct, or exploitation
related to the practice of the profession of the applicant or credential
holder;
(10) Failure to keep and maintain adequate records of treatment or
service;
(11) Prescribing, administering, distributing, dispensing, giving, or
selling any controlled substance or other drug recognized as addictive or
dangerous for other than a medically accepted therapeutic purpose;
(12) Prescribing any controlled substance to (a) oneself or (b) except in
the case of a medical emergency (i) one's spouse, (ii) one's child, (iii) one's
parent, (iv) one's sibling, or (v) any other person living in the same
household as the prescriber;
(13) Failure to comply with any federal, state, or municipal law,
ordinance, rule, or regulation that pertains to the applicable profession;
(14) Disruptive behavior, whether verbal or physical, which interferes
with consumer care or could reasonably be expected to interfere with such care;
and
(15) Violation of the Preborn Child Protection Act;
(16) Beginning October 1, 2023, performing gender-altering procedures for
an individual younger than nineteen years of age in violation of section 17 of
this act; and
(17) (15) Such other acts as may be defined in rules and regulations.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to exclude determination of
additional conduct that is unprofessional by adjudication in individual
contested cases.
Sec. 9. Section 38-192, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, is amended
to read:
38-192 (1) If the director determines upon completion of a hearing under
section 38-183 or 38-186 that a violation has occurred, the director may, at
his or her discretion, consult with the appropriate board concerning sanctions
to be imposed or terms and conditions of the sanctions. When the director
consults with a board, the credential holder and the Attorney General shall be
provided with a copy of the director's request, the recommendation of the
board, and an opportunity to respond in such manner as the director determines.
(2) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, the The director
shall have the authority through entry of an order to exercise in his or her
discretion any or all of the sanctions authorized under subsection (1) of
section 38-196.
(3) If the director determines upon completion of a hearing under section
38-183 or 38-186 that a licensee has performed or induced an unlawful abortion
in violation of section 4 of this act, the director shall enter an order
imposing a sanction authorized under subsection (2) of section 38-196.
Sec. 10. Section 38-193, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, is amended
to read:
38-193 (1) If the petition is brought with respect to subdivision (3) of
section 38-2021, the director shall make findings as to whether the licensee's
conduct was necessary to save the life of a mother whose life was endangered by
a physical disorder, physical illness, or physical injury, including a life-
endangering physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself.
The director shall have the authority through entry of an order to exercise in
his or her discretion any or all of the sanctions authorized under section
38-196, irrespective of the petition.
(2) If the petition is brought with respect to subdivision (5) of section
38-2021, the director shall make findings as to whether the licensee performed
or induced an unlawful abortion in violation of section 4 of this act. If the
director finds such a violation, the director shall enter an order revoking the
licensee's credential to practice pursuant to the Uniform Credentialing Act in
LB574
2023
LB574
2023
-3-
the State of Nebraska in accordance with subsection (2) of section 38-196 and
section 38-1,100.
Sec. 11. Section 38-196, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, is amended
to read:
38-196 (1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, upon
Upon the completion of any hearing held regarding discipline of a credential,
the director may dismiss the action or impose any of the following sanctions:
(a) (1) Censure;
(b) (2) Probation;
(c) (3) Limitation;
(d) (4) Civil penalty;
(e) (5) Suspension; or
(f) (6) Revocation.
(2) Upon completion of any hearing regarding discipline of a credential
for performing or inducing an unlawful abortion in violation of section 4 of
this act, if the director determines that such violation occurred, the director
shall impose a sanction of revocation in accordance with section 38-1,100.
Sec. 12. Section 38-2021, Revised Statutes Cumulative Supplement, 2022, is
amended to read:
38-2021 Unprofessional conduct means any departure from or failure to
conform to the standards of acceptable and prevailing practice of medicine and
surgery or the ethics of the profession, regardless of whether a person,
patient, or entity is injured, or conduct that is likely to deceive or defraud
the public or is detrimental to the public interest, including, but not limited
to:
(1) Performance by a physician of an abortion as defined in subdivision
(1) of section 28-326 under circumstances when he or she will not be available
for a period of at least forty-eight hours for postoperative care unless such
postoperative care is delegated to and accepted by another physician;
(2) Performing an abortion upon a minor without having satisfied the
requirements of sections 71-6901 to 71-6911;
(3) The intentional and knowing performance of a partial-birth abortion as
defined in subdivision (8) of section 28-326, unless such procedure is
necessary to save the life of the mother whose life is endangered by a physical
disorder, physical illness, or physical injury, including a life-endangering
physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself; and
(4) Performance by a physician of an abortion in violation of the Pain-
Capable Unborn Child Protection Act; and .
(5) Violation of the Preborn Child Protection Act.
Sec. 13. Section 38-2894, Revised Statutes Cumulative Supplement, 2022, is
amended to read:
38-2894 (1) A registration to practice as a pharmacy technician may be
denied, refused renewal, removed, or suspended or have other disciplinary
measures taken against it by the department, with the recommendation of the
board, for failure to meet the requirements of or for violation of any of the
provisions of subdivisions (1) through (18) and (20) through (27) (26) of
section 38-178 and sections 38-2890 to 38-2897 or the rules and regulations
adopted under such sections.
(2) If the department proposes to deny, refuse renewal of, or remove or
suspend a registration, it shall send the applicant or registrant a notice
setting forth the action to be taken and the reasons for the determination. The
denial, refusal to renew, removal, or suspension shall become final thirty days
after mailing the notice unless the applicant or registrant gives written
notice to the department of his or her desire for an informal conference or for
a formal hearing.
(3) Notice may be served by any method specified in section 25-505.01, or
the department may permit substitute or constructive service as provided in
section 25-517.02 when service cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any
of the methods specified in section 25-505.01.
(4) Pharmacy technicians may participate in the Licensee Assistance
Program described in section 38-175.
Sec. 14. Sections 14 to 20 of this act shall be known and may be cited as
the Let Them Grow Act.
Sec. 15. The Legislature finds that:
(1) The state has a compelling government interest in protecting the
health and safety of its citizens, especially vulnerable children;
(2) Genital and nongenital gender-altering surgeries are generally not
recommended for children, although evidence indicates referral for children to
have such surgeries are becoming more frequent; and
(3) Genital and nongenital gender-altering surgery includes several
irreversible and invasive procedures for biological males and biological
females and involves the alteration of biologically healthy and functional body
parts.
Sec. 16. For purposes of the Let Them Grow Act:
(1) Biological sex means the biological indication of male and female in
the context of reproductive potential or capacity, such as sex chromosomes,
naturally occurring sex hormones, gonads, and nonambiguous internal and
external genitalia present at birth, without regard to an individual's
psychological, chosen, or subjective experience of gender;
(2) Cross-sex hormones means testosterone or other androgens given to
biological females in amounts that are larger or more potent than would
normally occur naturally in healthy biological sex females and estrogen given
to biological males in amounts that are larger or more potent than would
LB574
2023
LB574
2023
-4-
normally occur naturally in healthy biological sex males;
(3) Gender means the psychological, behavioral, social, and cultural
aspects of being male or female;
(4) Gender-altering surgery means any medical or surgical service that
seeks to surgically alter or remove healthy physical or anatomical
characteristics or features that are typical for the individual's biological
sex in order to instill or create physiological or anatomical characteristics
that resemble a sex different from the individual's biological sex, including
without limitation, genital or nongenital gender-altering surgery performed for
the purpose of assisting an individual with a gender alteration;
(5) Gender alteration means the process in which a person goes from
identifying with and living as a gender that corresponds to his or her
biological sex to identifying with and living as a gender different from his or
her biological sex and may involve social, legal, or physical changes;
(6)(a) Gender-altering procedures includes any medical or surgical
service, including without limitation physician's services, inpatient and
outpatient hospital services, or prescribed drugs related to gender alteration,
that seeks to:
(i) Alter or remove physical or anatomical characteristics or features
that are typical for the individual's biological sex; or
(ii) Instill or create physiological or anatomical characteristics that
resemble a sex different from the individual's biological sex, including
without limitation medical services that provide puberty-blocking drugs, cross-
sex hormones, or other mechanisms to promote the development of feminizing or
masculinizing features in the opposite biological sex, or genital or nongenital
gender-altering surgery performed for the purpose of assisting an individual
with a gender alteration;
(b) Gender-altering procedures does not include:
(i) Services to persons born with a medically verifiable disorder of sex
development, including a person with external biological sex characteristics
that are irresolvably ambiguous, such as those born with 46 XX chromosomes with
virilization, 46 XY chromosomes with undervirilization, or having both ovarian
and testicular tissue;
(ii) Services provided when a health care practitioner has otherwise
diagnosed a disorder of sexual development that the health care practitioner
has determined, through genetic or biochemical testing, that the person does
not have normal sex-chromosome structure, sex-steroid production, or sex-
steroid hormone action;
(iii) The acute and chronic treatment of any infection, injury, disease,
or disorder that has been caused by or exacerbated by the performance of a
gender-altering procedure, whether or not the gender-altering procedure was
performed in accordance with state and federal law; or
(iv) Any procedure undertaken because the individual suffers from a
physical disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as
certified by the health care practitioner, place the individual in imminent
danger of death or impairment of major bodily function unless surgery is
performed;
(7) Genital gender-altering surgery means a medical procedure performed
for the purpose of assisting an individual with a gender alteration, including
without limitation:
(a) Surgical procedures such as penectomy, orchiectomy, vaginoplasty,
clitoroplasty, or vulvoplasty for biologically male patients or hysterectomy or
ovariectomy for biologically female patients;
(b) Reconstruction of the fixed part of the urethra with or without a
metoidioplasty; or
(c) Phalloplasty, vaginectomy, scrotoplasty, or implantation of erection
or testicular prostheses for biologically female patients;
(8) Health care practitioner means a person licensed or certified under
the Uniform Credentialing Act;
(9) Puberty-blocking drugs means gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues
or other synthetic drugs used in biological males to stop luteinizing hormone
secretion and therefore testosterone secretion, or synthetic drugs used in
biological females which stop the production of estrogens and progesterone,
when used to delay or suppress pubertal development in children for the purpose
of assisting an individual with a gender alteration; and
(10) Nongenital gender-altering surgery means medical procedures performed
for the purpose of assisting an individual with a gender alteration, including
without limitation:
(a) Surgical procedures for biologically male patients, such as voice
surgery or thyroid cartilage reduction; or
(b) Surgical procedures for biologically female patients, such as
subcutaneous mastectomy or voice surgery.
Sec. 17. (1) Except as provided in the Let Them Grow Act and the rules
and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act, a health care
practitioner shall not perform gender-altering procedures in this state for an
individual younger than nineteen years of age.
(2) The intentional and knowing performance of gender-altering procedures
by a health care practitioner for an individual younger than nineteen years of
age in violation of subsection (1) of this section shall be considered
unprofessional conduct as defined in section 38-179.
(3) This section does not apply to the continuation of treatment using
puberty-blocking drugs, cross-sex hormones, or both when the course of
treatment began before the operative date of this section.
LB574
2023
LB574
2023
-5-
(4) This section does not apply to nonsurgical gender-altering procedures
when such procedures are provided in compliance with the rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated pursuant to section 18 of this act.
Sec. 18. (1) The chief medical officer as designated in section 81-3115
shall adopt and promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to
provide for nonsurgical gender-altering procedures for individuals younger than
nineteen years of age, such as puberty-blocking drugs, cross-sex hormones, or
both. Such rules and regulations shall be consistent with the Let Them Grow Act
and, at a minimum, include the following:
(a) Specify that a health care practitioner may prescribe approved
puberty-blocking drugs, cross-sex hormones, or both to an individual younger
than nineteen years of age if such individual has a long-lasting and intense
pattern of gender nonconformity or gender dysphoria which began or worsened at
the start of puberty;
(b) Specific criteria, obligations, or conditions regulating the
administration, prescribing, delivery, sale, or use of puberty-blocking drugs,
cross-sex hormones, or both involving an individual younger than nineteen years
of age in accordance with subdivision (1)(a) of this section, which shall, at a
minimum, set forth the following:
(i) The minimum number of gender-identity-focused therapeutic hours
required prior to an individual receiving puberty-blocking drugs, cross-sex
hormones, or both;
(ii) Patient advisory requirements necessary for a health care
practitioner to obtain informed patient consent;
(iii) Patient medical record documentation requirements to ensure
compliance with the act; and
(iv) A minimum waiting period between the time the health care
practitioner obtains informed patient consent and the administration,
prescribing, or delivery of puberty-blocking drugs, cross-sex hormones, or both
to such patient; and
(c) Specify that section 17 of this act does not apply to nonsurgical
gender-altering procedures when such procedures are provided in compliance with
the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to this section.
(2) The Department of Health and Human Services may adopt and promulgate
rules and regulations not inconsistent with the rules and regulations adopted
and promulgated by the chief medical officer that are necessary to carry out
the Let Them Grow Act.
Sec. 19. State funds shall not be directly or indirectly used, granted,
paid, or distributed to any entity, organization, or individual for providing
gender-altering procedures to an individual younger than nineteen years of age
in violation of the Let Them Grow Act and the rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the act.
Sec. 20. An individual that received a gender-altering procedure in
violation of section 17 of this act after the operative date of this section
and while such individual was younger than nineteen years of age, or the parent
or guardian of such an individual, may bring a civil action for appropriate
relief against the health care practitioner who performed the gender-altering
procedure. Appropriate relief in an action under this section includes actual
damages and reasonable attorney's fees. An action under this section shall be
brought within two years after discovery of damages.
Sec. 21. Sections 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 of this act become
operative on October 1, 2023. The other sections of this act become operative
on their effective date.
Sec. 22. If any section in this act or any part of any section is
declared invalid or unconstitutional, the declaration shall not affect the
validity or constitutionality of the remaining portions.
Sec. 23. Original sections 38-192, 38-193, and 38-196, Reissue Revised
Statutes of Nebraska, and sections 38-178, 38-179, 38-2021, and 38-2894,
Revised Statutes Cumulative Supplement, 2022, are repealed.
Sec. 24. Since an emergency exists, this act takes effect when passed and
approved according to law.
LB574
2023
LB574
2023
-6-