Go to Content
Find a health center: Get in-person or telehealth care
Choose between telehealth or in-person services at a Planned Parenthood health center.
In-Person
Visit a health center for services.
Telehealth
Privately connect with a nurse or doctor on video, phone, or by messaging.
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
Most insurance plans are accepted — Aetna, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield, United Health Care, Anthem, and more (insurance acceptance varies by health center)
Staff can help verify your coverage and estimate costs
Copays, deductibles, or out-of-pocket costs vary by plan
You may qualify for low-cost or free services
Many Planned Parenthood health centers offer sliding-scale prices based on your income
Get help to figure out your options: contact your nearest Planned Parenthood health center
Birth Control:
In-person : Best for exams, IUD/implant insertion and removal, and all birth control methods.
Telehealth : Connect with your nurse or doctor by video/phone or messaging. Best for consultations, prescriptions, re-fills, and follow-ups.
STD Testing and Treatment:
In-person : Get all STI services, physical exams, and tests.
Telehealth : Some at-home tests and treatments can be mailed to you. Best for consultations, prescriptions, re-fills, and follow-ups.
Abortion:
In-person : Get in-clinic abortion or the abortion pill at your nearest health center (where legal and available).
Telehealth : Connect with your nurse or doctor by video/phone or messaging, and get the abortion pill by mail or pick it up at your pharmacy (where legal and available).
Emergency Contraception (Morning-After Pill):
In-person : Get all emergency contraception methods at your nearest health center. Same-day walk-in appointments may be available for the morning-after pill. Call 1-800-230-PLAN for more information.
Telehealth : Connect with a nurse or doctor by video/phone or messaging, and get the morning-after pill delivered to you or pick it up at your pharmacy (where available).
Gender-Affirming Care:
In-person : Get gender-affirming care services including hormone therapy, tests, prescriptions, surgery referrals, transitions support, and more (where available).
Telehealth : Connect with your nurse or doctor by video or phone for initial appointment, hormone therapy, surgery referrals, follow-ups, transition support, resources, and more (where available).
Not every Planned Parenthood health center provides gender-affirming care. Check with your nearest health center about the services they offer.
Find More Services
In-Person
Best when you need physical exams, tests, or procedures. A good option when you want access to all services, and prefer talking to a doctor or nurse in-person.
Telehealth
Best for prescriptions, refills, quick consultations, and follow-ups. A good option when you can't travel and telehealth is offered in your state.
How do I find a Planned Parenthood health center near me?
Find your nearest health center by entering your ZIP code, city, or state at the top of this page. You can filter your results by the service you need (like birth control, STD testing and treatment, abortion, and more), and appointment type (in-person or online). You can also call 1-800-230-PLAN for information about health centers near you, or to make an appointment.
How much does an appointment at Planned Parenthood cost?
The price for services at Planned Parenthood depends on many different factors, like:
The service you need
What kind of health insurance you have — if any
The services your insurance plan covers
The amount of funding the health center receives
The state and/or local programs available to help cover the cost of your visit
How much money you make
For more information about cost for the services you need, contact your nearest Planned Parenthood health center .
Can I get care without insurance?
Yes. If you don’t have insurance, you may qualify for state programs that may help cover some or all your costs. Contact your nearest Planned Parenthood health center to learn more about your options.
Can I use my insurance at Planned Parenthood's health centers?
Planned Parenthood health centers accept most major health insurance plans. Coverage and costs vary by plan and location. Contact your nearest Planned Parenthood health center for more information.
Can I get same-day appointments?
Some health centers offer same-day or next-day appointments, depending on availability. Also, some health centers offer walk-in services. To learn more, contact your nearest Planned Parenthood health center .
What is telehealth?
In addition to in-person visits, Planned Parenthood health centers offer virtual medical care. Skip the waiting, travel, and extra costs, and connect privately and securely through video, phone, or messaging — with the same expert nurses and doctors you trust.
Telehealth is a great option any time you can't travel to a Planned Parenthood health center, and telehealth is offered in your state (you need to be located in the state where you’re receiving care). You can make a telehealth appointment online or call 1-800-230-PLAN.
Find telehealth options in your state.
What kind of services can I get through telehealth?
Planned Parenthood health centers offer many services through telehealth, like birth control, STI testing and treatment, emergency contraception (morning-after pill), the abortion pill (where available), gender-affirming care (where available), UTI services, and more.
You can get telehealth care from anywhere in the state you’re located in (you need to be physically located in the state where you’re receiving care). Learn more about telehealth options in your state.
How do I use telehealth?
You can:
Book a telehealth appointment with a Planned Parenthood health center in your state: Connect by video or phone. Telehealth is great for quick consultations, refills, follow-ups, and services that don’t require a physical exam — like birth control, emergency contraception (Plan B), abortion pills (where legal), UTI treatment, and more.
Message a provider with PPDirect: Chat privately and securely with a doctor or nurse, and get your medication delivered by mail or pick-up at your pharmacy. You can get prescription refills, birth control, the morning-after pill, abortion pills (where legal), UTI treatment, and more.
Find telehealth options in your state.
Can I get the abortion pill through telehealth?
Many Planned Parenthood health centers offer the abortion pill through telehealth (where legal). You can make a video/phone appointment or message a provider with PPDirect (where available). Find abortion services here .
See full list of health centers in each state
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all