Skip to content
Legal Resources
Legal Resources
Find a LGBTQ-friendly attorney in the Resource Directory, understand the ways in which equal marriage has impacted LGBTQ couples in Colorado, and get support and information around reporting a hate crime.
The Center on Colfax cannot give legal advice and only provides referrals to LGBTQ-friendly attorneys and resources. The following agencies have been especially helpful to many members of the LGBTQ community.
Colorado Civil Rights Division
Denver Office of Human Rights & Community Partnerships
Colorado LGBT Bar Association
Denver Metro Fair Housing Center
Disability Law United
Colorado Legal and Rent Assistance
Colorado Housing Connects
Colorado Affordable Legal Services LLC
Colorado Name Change Project
Colorado Cross Disability Coalition
Lambda Legal Help Desk
LGBT National Help Hotline
Legal Resources
Gain legal knowledge or find an LGBTQ-friendly attorney in our online Resource Directory.
RESOURCES
Hate Crimes
Learn what a hate crime is, how to report it in Colorado, and ways to find support at The Center.
LEARN MORE
Transgender Resource Spotlight:
CO Name Change Project
The Colorado Name Change Project has current information and forms on how to update your name and gender marker in the State of Colorado. Volunteers are also available to answer questions submitted through their website.
CO NAME CHANGE PROJECT
Transgender Resource Spotlight:
National Center for Transgender Equality
Not born in Colorado? The National Center for Transgender Equality's ID Documents Center is a one-stop hub for information on how to update your name and gender marker in all 50 states. Plus, you can also use their scorecard to see how friendly the driver's license gender change policies are in your state.
ID DOCUMENTS CENTER
Page load link
Ready to Rebel? ❤️‍🔥
Join us at Afterglow, our rooftop fashion show fundraiser, on September 26 at 6:00 PM. It will be an unforgettable night of storytelling, community, and impact. Use code REBEL10 for 10% off your ticket today.
x
Go to Top