English Español
English
About
History
Board of Directors
Staff
What is Trauma Informed Care?
News & Resources
Annual Reports
Art Brigade Welcome Page
Event Photo Galleries
Privacy Policy
Job Opportunities
Contact
Donate
(804) 358-6343
×
English Español
English
Patients & Clients
Overview
Primary Care
Mental Health & Wellness
HIV/STI Testing Services
Needle Exchange
Ryan White Services
Trans Health
Eligibility for Services
Volunteers & Providers
Ways to Give
News & Resources
Annual Reports
Art Brigade Welcome Page
Event Photo Galleries
Jobs
Privacy Policy
Contact
Donate
2025 Annual Report
PATIENT PORTAL
MENU
Trans Health
NOTE: Health Brigade is now accepting clients for Trans Health Services who have Medicaid.
Health Brigade aims to meet each patient’s overall health care needs in a safe and welcoming environment. We understand that transgender, gender queer, gender variant, non-binary and gender non-conforming individuals face unique barriers in accessing appropriate and affirmative health care. We are pleased to offer medical and mental health services that we see as critical resources for our patients.
In order to honor gender identity and provide quality care, new clients will complete our registration materials and provide demographic information such as your legal name, name you use, and appropriate pronouns.
To best serve our patients, Health Brigade provides the following specific types of medical and behavioral health care and support services:
Trans Health Care Services
Primary Medical Care
Breast & chest health
Coordination of care
HIV & STD testing and counseling
Hormone treatment & monitoring
Medication assistance program
Pelvic wellness & Pap smears
Supportive services
Mental Health Services
Individual Counseling
Ryan White Part B mental health and substance use counseling
Support Groups
Surgery Support Letters
Psychiatric Referrals
Voice Therapy
Support Services
Legal Services (Name and Gender Marker changes) Richmond TLC (Trans Legal Collaborative) Name & Gender Marker Change Clinic
Hormone Administration & Monitoring
To begin your care with Health Brigade, please follow this process:
To ensure that you are eligible to be seen at Health Brigade click here. Please be sure to check out the proof of income documentation that you will need to bring to your registration appointment. If you have questions about eligibility, please reach out to Cristina Kincaid , Director of Health Outreach.
All new patients seeking transgender health services must complete a registration and intake appointment. Since hormones can affect patients physically and emotionally, we want to ensure patients understand all resources Health Brigade offers to support a healthy transition and to obtain information important to the patient’s medical provider. This appointment also allows us to gather informed consent to administer hormones.
Once you have completed the registration and intake appointment you will be scheduled for a visit with a medical provider.
****Please note that Health Brigade only accepts transgender patients who are uninsured or have Medicaid. If you are looking for trans health care and are insured, please call The Virginia League for Planned Parenthood’s Trans Health Line at 804-482-6154 to inquire more about their trans health services.
Below are links to other organizations and entities that offer transgender health and other services to help transgender, gender queer, gender variant and gender non-conforming individuals find information. The provided links are for information and represent the thoughts of the authors/websites and are not endorsed by or reflect the beliefs of Health Brigade. We advise that you always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical or mental health condition.
Resources
VIRGINIA TRANSGENDER RESOURCES
* Virginia Transgender Resource and Referral List
* Name & Gender Change Guide for VA Residents
* Transgender Health Alliance of Central Virginia
* PFLAG Blue Ridge
* LGBT Life Center
* Equality Virginia
* Side by Side
* Nationz Foundation
* Virginia Anti Violence Project
NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL TRANSGENDER RESOURCES
* Center for Excellence for Transgender Health
* Hudson’s FTM Resource Guide
* Human Rights Compaign Transgender Information
* International Foundation for Gender Education
* Lambda Legal
* Laura’s Playground
* National Center for Transgender Equality
* Transgender Law and Policy Institute
* The Transitional Male
* The World Professional Association for Transgender Health
* Trans Equality
* Transgender Law Center
All Services
Primary Care
Mental Health & Wellness
HIV/STI Testing Services
Trans Health
Needle Exchange
Call to schedule an appointment
(804) 358-6343