BULLETIN 14-02
Date: January 27, 2014
To: Insurers, Nonprofit Health Services Plans, and Health Maintenance Organizations
(“Carriers”)
Re: Clarification of Coverage for Transgender Individuals
The purpose of this Bulletin is to clarify the scope of the exclusion in the benchmark plan
selected to define essential health benefits (EHB) in Maryland for “treatment leading to or in connection
with transsexualism, or sex changes or modifications, including but not limited to surgery.”
The exclusion is based upon COMAR 31.11.06.06B(32), applicable to carriers that offered the
comprehensive standard health benefit plan in the small employer market for plan years prior to 2014.
Under applicable State law, as incorporated in the State’s EHB benchmark plan, the exclusion should be
narrowly applied to items and services that are directly related to the gender reassignment process. It
does not exclude coverage for medically necessary items or services, including medically necessary
preventive services, solely on the grounds that the person receiving the services is a transgender
individual.
Section 27-208(b)(1) of the Insurance Article, Annotated Code of Maryland,1 prohibits unfair
discrimination between individuals of the same class and of essentially the same hazard (1) in the amount
of premium, policy fees, or rates charged for a policy or contract of health insurance; (2) in the benefits
payable under a policy or contract of health insurance; (3) in any of the term or conditions of a policy or
contract or health insurance; or (4) in any other manner. Furthermore, under § 27-303, it is an unfair
claim settlement practice and a violation of the Unfair Claim Settlement Practices subtitle of the
Insurance Article to refuse to pay a claim for an arbitrary or capricious reason based on all available
information or to fail to meet the requirements of Title 15, Subtitles 10A (related to the complaint process
for adverse decisions) and 10B (related to determinations by private review agents).
Read together, these provisions prohibit a carrier from discriminating among insureds under a
1 Unless otherwise noted, all statutory references in this Bulletin are to the Insurance Article, Annotated Code of
Maryland, 2011 Replacement Volume and Supplements thereto.
THERESE M. GOLDSMITH
Commissioner
KAREN STAKEM HORNIG
Deputy Commissioner
MARTIN O’MALLEY
Governor
ANTHONY G. BROWN
Lt. Governor
200 St. Paul Place, Suite 2700, Baltimore, Maryland 21202
1-800-492-6116 TTY: 1-800-735-2258
www.mdinsurance.state md.us
health benefit plan on the basis of the insured’s actual or perceived gender identity, or on the basis that
the insured is a transgender individual.
Questions concerning this Bulletin should be directed to the Life/Health Section of the Maryland
Insurance Administration at 410-468-2170.
Therese M. Goldsmith
Commissioner
2Signature on original