Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
US Virgin Islands Identity Documents
US Virgin Islands Name Change Laws
To obtain a legal name change in the U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI), an individual must petition the Superior Court of USVI in either St. Thomas/St. John or St. Croix for a legal name change. The petition should include the current legal name of the petitioner, the proposed name, the residence of the petitioner, the place of birth of the petitioner, and documents demonstrating the identification of the petitioner, including a birth certificate. Upon receipt of the petition, the court will send a list of requirements to the petitioner’s address detailing how to proceed. The requirements include two periods of public notice in a local newspaper. The first notice is referred to as the notice of intent, which will be published for four consecutive weeks. The notice of intent must include the petitioner’s current name, the proposed name, and the date of a hearing provided by the court. At the hearing the court may, in the absence of a compelling reason from the public, issue a tentative consent to the proposed name change. A final certificate of name change is issued upon receiving proof that a second public announcement of the name change is made in a local newspaper for an additional two consecutive weeks. The final certificate of name change is provided to the Bureau of Vital Statistics by the court. The fees for filing the petition are $75.
US Virgin Islands Drivers License Policy & Procedures
To change the name on a driver’s license, the applicant must present a completed driver’s license application, appropriate identification, and a court order demonstrating a change of name. Applicant’s social security number, all nine numbers, must appear on the court order. A list of identification documents required to obtain or renew a license can be found here .
A representative of the USVI Bureau of Motor Vehicles stated that the gender marker on a driver’s license could be changed if an individual presents a court order that reflects a change in gender marker. However, multiple representatives of the Superior Court of USVI stated that they are unaware of a single instance of a petition being received for changing a gender marker. The court representatives were unable to speculate on the outcome of a petition for changing a gender marker. It is possible to request that the court seal the petition, however the court would need to be provided with evidence that the petitioner would be harmed but for the sealing of the petition and resulting order.
US Virgin Islands Birth Certificate Laws
Upon issuance of a court order for name change, the Bureau of Vital Statistics within the Department of Public Health can issue a new birth certificate that reflects the court ordered changes. A representative of the Department of Public Health stated that a request can be made in person, with government-issued identification, for the new birth certificate approximately five to seven business days after the court order has been issued. The reissued birth certificate will be noted as amended, but will not explicitly state what was amended.
There exist no statutory bans on changing a gender marker on a birth certificate however no protocol or legal standard is known to exist to do so. Multiple representatives of the Superior Court of USVI stated that they are unaware of a single instance of a petition being received for changing a gender marker. The court representatives were unable to speculate on the outcome of a petition for changing a gender marker. It is possible to request that the court seal the petition, however the court would need to be provided with evidence that the petitioner would be harmed but for the sealing of the petition and resulting order.
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe