Skip to main content
How to Change Information on Your Driver License or ID Card
September 29, 2020
To change your Address, Zip Code and Name on your driver license or ID card, you must apply for a replacement (also known as a duplicate) and pay the required fee .
Address Change
In Texas, your address on a driver license or ID card must be changed within 30 days after moving to your new residence.
There are three ways you can request a replacement driver license and change your address:
Online
Mail-In
In-Person
Online Address Change
Using this online feature is the fastest and most convenient method to change your address. Learn more about the eligibility requirements to change your address online. If you know you meet these requirements, begin the process by clicking the link below.
Click here for fastest way to change the address on your driver license or ID card.
Mail-In Address Change
If you are unable to change your address online, you can complete the Application for Change of Address and mail it to the Department for processing. You must meet the following requirements to change your address by mail:
Your driver license is not expired.
You have a non-commercial driver license, Class C or CM or Class A or B non-CDL driver license. You cannot use the mail services to change your address on a Commercial Driver License.
You are at least 18 years of age and your driver license is not a provisional or learner license.
Your driver license is valid (not suspended or revoked).
Your Social Security Number is already on file.
You are a U.S. citizen.
Complete the application, sign and include the required fee . Both the application and fee must be mailed to the address located at the top of the form for processing. Please allow an additional ten days to the processing time due to mailing your request.
In-Person Address Change
If you are unable to change your address online or mail-in your application request, you can take your completed Application for Change of Address to any driver license office. Locate the office nearest you. (This form is also available at the driver license office.)
Alternative Address Option for Authorized Individuals
If you are one of the following, you may have an alternate address printed on the face of your non-commercial driver license or ID card as an alternative to using your residential address.
Qualified peace officer
Parole officer
Probation officer
Prosecutor
Special investigator
Federal judge (and family members*)
State judge (and family members*)
U.S. Marshal (and family members*)
U.S. Attorney (and family members*)
Court administration employees including: court clerks, court coordinators, court administrators, juvenile case managers, law clerks or staff attorneys or as employees of the office of county clerk, district clerk, Office of Court Administration and entities administratively attached to the office or as employees or commissioners of the State Commission on Judicial Conduct (and family members*)
* Family members include spouse, minor child, or adult child who resides in the person’s home.
To change the address on your non-commercial driver license or ID card, you must:
Apply in person at any driver license office (online transactions are not allowed because applicants must verify employment);
Pay the required fee ;
Surrender any driver license or ID card previously issued;
Provide your current residential address on the application (required for DPS records and mailing purposes).
In addition to the requirements above;
Peace officers, defined in Texas Code of Criminal Procedure §2.12, must:
Be commissioned in Texas
Be currently employed by a law enforcement agency
Present your license issued by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement (TCOLE)
Present your peace officer identification card and badge issued by your employing agency
Parole officers, defined in Texas Government Code §508.001, must:
Present your official ID card or badge; or
Present an employment verification letter on official agency letterhead
Probation officers, defined in Texas Transportation Code §521.1211, must:
Present your official ID card or badge; or
Present an employment verification letter on official agency letterhead
Special investigators, defined in Texas Code of Criminal Procedure §2.122, must:
Present your federal ID card and badge; or
Present letter with required information if employing agency policy disallows copying or scanning the ID card
Federal judges, defined in Texas Election Code §1.005, and family members must:
Present your (or your spouse’s) official identification card issued by the Administrative Office of United States Courts
State judges, defined in Texas Election Code §1.005, and family members must:
Present your (or your spouse’s) official identification card issued by the Texas Secretary of State; or
Present your (or your spouse’s) business card along with additional identifying documentation, issued by a state agency affiliated with the judiciary including Office of Court Administration, Office of the Attorney General, Secretary of State and Texas courts.
Prosecutors, defined in Texas Transportation Code §521.1211, and family members must:
Present a letter from the elected prosecutor for their office affirming employment
Elected Prosecutors must present their Oath of Office documentation
U.S. Marshals of the U.S. Marshals service, and family members must:
Present your federal ID card and badge; or
Present letter with required information if employing agency policy disallows copying or scanning the ID card
U.S. Attorneys and family members must:
Present a letter from the elected prosecutor for their office affirming employment; or
Present their Oath of Office documentation
Court administration employees must:
Present an employment verification letter on agency letterhead; or
Present your official ID or badge; or
Present a payroll or HR record
Family members of court administration employees must:
Present proof of relationship to employee (marriage certificate, birth certificate, adoption papers) and
Present proof the related employee qualifies from the above list
If you are applying for an original , renewal or replacement driver license or ID card , you must meet all other eligibility requirements.
Name Change
If you want to change your name, you must:
Visit any driver license office within 30 days of the change; and
Provide one of the documents listed below that verifies your name change. The document must be an original, as copies are not accepted. If the document is not in English, a certified English translation must also be submitted with the original document.
Locate the office nearest you.
Marriage-Related Name Change
If your name change is marriage related, bring one of the following documents:
Marriage license
Divorce decree
Annulment
Department of State Health Services marriage verification letter
Other Types of Name Change
If your name change is not marriage related, bring one of the following documents:
Certified court order
Amended birth certificate
Certificate of Naturalization (Form N-550, N-570 or N-578)
Note: Documents must be original or certified copy. Certified documents should not be laminated. No photocopies can be accepted.