Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Scheduled Maintenance
The Probate Court website and e-Filing system are scheduled for maintenance on Saturday, September 26, 2026 from 8:00 AM until 8:00 PM. These applications will not be available during this time.
Birth Correction / Delayed Birth Registration
Birth Record Forms
e-Filing System Information
e-Filing Instructions for Birth Corrections (PDF, 2MB)
Court Costs
Delayed Birth Registration : $72.00
Birth Record Correction : $70.00
All credit/debit transactions that take place in Probate Court or that are completed through E-Filing are subject to a financial institution transaction fee that is non-refundable. Visit our Court Costs page for more details.
Birth Record Correction
To be eligible to apply for a Birth Record Correction through this Probate Court, you must have been born in the State of Ohio and also meet one of the following:
born in Franklin County;
your mother was a resident of Franklin County at the time of your birth; or
you now reside in Franklin County
To apply for a correction, you must electronically file the following documents:
A completed and notarized Application for Correction of Birth. If a signer is physically located in Ohio and uses an online notary, the notary must be licensed in Ohio and located within the state during the notarization.
Originals of all required supporting documents (see list below)
A photocopy of a valid driver's license or passport
$70.00 court costs, payable only through the electronic filer website using a credit or debit card.
Payments by cash, money order, cashier's check, attorney check, or personal check are no longer accepted. .
All payment arrangements must be completed electronically through the eFiling system at the time of filing.
You must present the Court with two valid documents to prove the information that you wish to correct. Below is an example of evidence that may be used in this Court:
Certificate of Baptism
Federal Census Records
School records or transcripts, with an original signature from the records secretary
Honorable Discharge from U.S. Armed Forces (DD 214)
Certified copy of application for marriage license, showing vital information
Life insurance policies (still in effect), at least four years old, showing date and place of birth
Letter from Hospital or Doctor (indicating vital information) on letterhead
Notarized Affidavit of a witness to the birth. If a signer is physically located in Ohio and uses an online notary, the notary must be licensed in Ohio and located within the state during the notarization.
Certified copy of one child's birth certificate
Once we have approved the application, we will send you a certified copy of the registration, which can be used as a birth certificate for any legal purpose.
Record searches may be requested by U.S. Mail or emailed to probate@franklincountyohio.gov
For requests submitted by U.S. Mail, please send a self addressed stamped envelope with your request to the following address:
Franklin County Probate Court
ATTN: Certified Desk
373 South High Street, 22nd Floor
Columbus, Ohio 43215-6311
Delayed Birth Registration
To be eligible to apply for a Delayed Birth Registration through this Probate Court, you must have been born in the State of Ohio.
To apply for a Delayed Birth Registration, you must electronically file the following documents:
A completed Application for Registration of Birth
A No-Record Letter from the Ohio Department of Health, Vital Statistics
For births before December 20, 1908, please contact the Probate Court in the county where the birth occurred for the search
Originals of all required supporting documents (see list below)
A photocopy of a valid driver's license or passport
Contact information (telephone and email) where court staff can reach you
$72.00 court costs, payable only through the electronic filer website using a credit or debit card.
Payments by cash, money order, cashier's check, attorney check, or personal check are no longer accepted. .
All payment arrangements must be completed electronically through the eFiling system at the time of filing.
You will need to provide the Court with a No-Record Letter from the Ohio Department of Health, Vital Statistics and three valid documents to prove the date and place of your birth and your parents' names. Below is an example of evidence that may be used in this Court:
Certificate of Baptism
Federal Census Records
School records or transcripts, with an original signature from the records secretary
Honorable Discharge from U.S. Armed Forces (DD 214)
Certified copy of application for marriage license, showing vital information
Life insurance policies (still in effect), at least 4 years old, showing date and place of birth
Letter from hospital or doctor (indicating vital information) on letterhead
Notarized Affidavit of a witness to the birth
Certified copy of one child's birth certificate
Gender Marker Changes
Individuals who were born in Ohio who wish to change the gender marker in their birth record must obtain a court order to do so. To request the court order approving the change in gender marker, applicants shall follow the general process for birth corrections as provided by Ohio Revised Code 3705.17(A) and also include the appropriate affidavit. See below.
To be eligible to file an Application for Correction of Birth Record (PDF, 160KB) in the Franklin County Probate Court the individual must have been born in the State of Ohio and meet one of the following:
was born in Franklin County
currently resides in Franklin County, Ohio
the individual's mother was a resident of Franklin County, Ohio at the time of the individual's birth
Adult Applicants
Adults applicants must provide to the court:
a verified application for Correction of Birth Record;
a certified copy of their Ohio birth record (also referred to as a birth abstract or birth certificate);
a copy of their current state-issued photo identification; and
Adult applicants must also submit an Affidavit to Correct Gender Marker in Birth Record (PDF, 176KB)
Minor Applicants
If the correction is for minor (under the age of 18), the application and affidavits must be completed by the minor's parent or court-appointed legal guardian. The applicant must provide to the court:
a verified application for Correction of Birth Record;
a certified copy of the minor's Ohio birth record (also referred to as a birth abstract or birth certificate);
a copy of the applicant's (not the minor's) current state-issued photo identification; and
an Affidavit to Correct Gender Marker in Birth Record for a Minor (PDF, 179KB) ;
if a notarized waiver or a notarized consent form is not completed by each of the minor's legal parents, the correction will be set for hearing. Additional documentation and/or testimony from the minor may be required before the court will approve an order to make the gender marker change
proof of the applicant's legal relationship to the minor: certified copy of birth certificate or certified copy of court order appointing applicant as the minor's legal guardian.
Contact Us
Phone
(614) 525-3899
Email
probate@franklincountyohio.gov
Location
373 South High Street, 22nd Floor
Columbus, Ohio
43215
View Map
Legal Practice in the Probate Court
Legal practice in the Probate Court is restricted by law to attorneys who are licensed by the Supreme Court of Ohio. Due to the complexity of the law and desire to avoid costly errors, most individuals who have filings before the Court are represented by an attorney. Court employees are prohibited by statute from practicing law and cannot give legal advice.
Additional information about getting help with limited legal services is available at The Supreme Court of Ohio Limited Scope Representation .
Back to top