Skip to main content
Utility Menu
Careers
Nursing
Pharmacy
Radiology
View All
Donate
Refer a Patient
Request an Appointment
MyChart
Language
GenderCare Center
At our center, we provide comprehensive care and support for people across the gender spectrum, from surgery to behavioral health to community resources.
Our mission is to provide accessible, individualized, and comprehensive gender-affirming care for the communities we serve while also advancing education, research, and advocacy efforts across New England and beyond.
Contact Us
617.638.1833
transgender.center@bmc.org
Fax: 617.414.7158
Services
Non-Surgical GenderCare Services
Information about gender affirming primary care, behavioral health, endocrinology, voice therapy, and more.
Surgical GenderCare Services
Information about gender affirming surgeries.
Patient Resources
Gender Affirming Healthcare Map of New England
This map provides information and locations of gender affirming healthcare services in the New England area.
Medical Records
How to access your BMC medical records.
Support Our Work
Thank you for your interest in donating to the GenderCare Center (GCC) at Boston Medical Center. Donations help the GCC advance our mission to provide accessible, individualized, and comprehensive gender-affirming care for the communities we serve while also advancing education, research, and advocacy efforts at BMC, across New England, and beyond. Our vision is for gender-affirming care to be an inherent part of healthcare.
Your support will either go toward GCC staffing, programming, and training efforts within Boston Medical Center or towards clinical research and quality initiative projects that further our reach and impact on the community. We truly appreciate your donation!
Make a Donation
To designate your donation to the GenderCare Center:
Under “Designation,” choose “Other.”
Click “Add comment.”
Type in “GenderCare Center.”
Department News
“Go as Far as I Can, as Fast as I Can”: 63-Year-Old Shows Off True Self
Growing up, Gigi didn’t think too hard about why she preferred being friends with girls or why she liked dressing in her mom’s clothes. “As a young kid, I didn’t really fit in. I was considered a big…
Jun 25
Research
Learn about Our Research Projects and Initiatives
Want to keep up with the latest news from Boston Medical Center? Sign up for our monthly patient newsletter, Your BMC.
Subscribe to Our Newsletter