Skip to content Schedule your appointment: New Castle County: (302) 224-6800 • Kent County: (302) 678-4622
Everyone is welcome through our door.
You and your family are at the heart of everything we do. At Westside, you&#x27;ll find equal access to quality healthcare, regardless of your ability to pay. Welcome to compassionate care, centered around you.
Locations close to home.
We have several offices across Delaware, allowing all patients access to quality healthcare.
Find a Location Near You
What to expect.
Resources and information for your appointment.
For Patients
Careers at Westside.
Join our team at Westside!
View Open Positions
Our Services
Compassionate care, centered around you.
At Westside, you and your family are at the heart of everything we do, regardless of your ability to pay. We provide services to adults, children and families, whether you have insurance or not. Learn more about our services below.
Medical
Dental
Pediatric Health
Women’s Health
Behavioral Healthcare
Rural Health Outreach
Support Programs
Respiratory Infections
Students training at Westside can have a significant and multifaceted impact on community health. Their involvement not only benefits their personal and professional development but also strengthens the community and the healthcare organization they are working with.
Brandi Taylor, Director of Clinical Operations
Westside News
Westside Family Healthcare in Dover gifted new food pantry by LCD 2026 class
News
Read More
Narcan® Available at Westside
Westside provides Narcan (naloxone) at all of our health centers—free of charge. It is available without a prescription or appointment. Just ask the front desk!
Medicaid Enrollment Assistance
Need help enrolling in Delaware Medicaid and/or CHIP? Westside’s enrollment services team offers free enrollment assistance in the Health Insurance Marketplace.
Westside’s Rural Health Outreach Program
During Delaware’s growing season,our mobile health team visits local farms and housing communities. We provide basic primary care to migrant and seasonal agricultural workers. The team includes providers, nurses and community health workers.
A meaningful career awaits.
Join our team of community-minded, nonpartisan healthcare workers. Help us improve our communities by offering equal access to quality, patient-centered care.
Start Your Healthcare Career Today