Back
Contact
Leadership
Back
Resource List
Ultimate Guide to Transitioning
Support Group Meetings
ID Documents Center
Health Care Provider List
Membership
Crisis Hotlines
Back
Know Your Rights: Directory
Project 2025
Trans Youth Healthcare Ban
Bathrooms, Students, Title IX
Bossier’s Criminal Bathroom Ban
Back
Legislative Toolbox + Trans Action Team
Lege Tracker 2026
Guide to Committee Hearings
Who is LocALL?
Health Care Providers List
NOTE REGARDING 2023 LEGISLATION RESTRICTING CARE FOR TRANS MINORS
During the 2023 legislative session, most of Louisiana’s lawmakers forced a bill through that would ban minors from receiving all gender-affirming care besides mental healthcare/therapy , regardless of parental permission. This law went into effect on January 1, 2024. Learn more about navigating the ban here.
The folks over at the Campaign for Southern Equality have created a fund to support local trans folks access to care in states that haven’t banned it. Learn more about the project and apply for funding here.
NOTE : The folks are Lambda Legal and the Center for Health Law, and Policy Innovation of Harvard Law School filed suit on Jan. 8, 2024, on behalf of five transgender Louisiana youth and their families against the Louisiana State Board of Medical Examiners to block the implementation of Act 466 (HB 648). Read more here.
KYR: Trans Youth Healthcare Ban
Southern Trans Youth Emergency Project
How to Join This List
Are you a healthcare provider who is dedicated to supplying a caring and supportive environment for transgender and gender nonconforming members of our state? Please use the following form to introduce yourself, we’d love to add you to the list.
How to Give Feedback on Providers
Have you visited a healthcare provider on this list? Do you have feedback you’d like to share? Positive or negative, we’d love to hear it.
Join Our Health Care List
Provide Feedback
Browse By Location Using Our Provider Map
Browse By Region
Greater New Orleans
Greater Baton Rouge
Southwest Louisiana
Acadiana
Northwest Louisiana
Telemed / Telehealth