Search for Your Issue
What should I know about name changes and gender marker changes in Georgia?
Legal Aid Virtual Assistant (LAVA) is a chatbot designed by Atlanta Legal Aid and LawDroid to provide legal information.
Watch the video , or read an overview of LAVA to learn more.
To get started, click the LAVA icon and ask away!
Featured Guides
Foreclosure
Eviction
Consumer
Public Benefits
Victim Legal Assistance
Authored By: GeorgiaLegalAid.org
Name & Gender Marker Changes
More info
Read this in:
Spanish / Español
Name & Gender Marker Changes
Name & Gender Marker Changes in Georgia
What should I know?
Contents
Do I have the right to change my name and/or gender marker in Georgia?
What are the requirements if I want to change my name in Georgia?
How much does it cost to legally change my name in Georgia?
What are the different ways that I can change my gender marker in Georgia?
What are the requirements to change my gender marker on my birth certificate?
What are the requirements if I want to change my gender marker on my ID/license?
How do I get a court order to change my gender marker?
Do I have the right to change my name and/or gender marker in Georgia?
As long as you meet the requirements, you have the right to legally change your name or gender marker in Georgia.
Back to top
What are the requirements if I want to change my name in Georgia?
There are four legal requirements for changing your name in Georgia:
You must live in Georgia
You must file with the Superior Court in the county you reside in,
You must not change your name to commit fraud or for the purpose of fraud, and
You must publish notice of change for 4 weeks in the legal newspaper for your county
What are the name change requirements for a minor?
If the person who wants to change their name is under 18 years old, there are additional requirements:
Both parents must consent to the name change unless a parent has abandoned the child.
Examples of abandonment include failure to support, visit, or communicate with the child for a minimum of six months.
Parents who have not consented must be served with the name change petition.
Why do I have to publish a notice of my name change in a newspaper?
You have to publish a notice of your name change to make sure you are not committing fraud. An example of fraud might be changing your name to hide your criminal history or to steal someone's identity. Publishing the notice gives a potential fraud victim an opportunity to notify the court by filing an objection.
There is no reason other than fraud that someone can object to your name change. For example, a family member cannot stop you from getting your name changed just because they disapprove or disagree.
However, if there is evidence of family violence against you, the judge may allow you to file your case under seal and waive the publication requirement. You should ask the judge for this at the time you file your case. Examples of evidence include police reports and temporary protective orders.
Back to top
How much does it cost to change my name in Georgia legally?
The cost of a name change varies by county, but in general, the costs are:
Approximately $200-$250 to file with the court
Approximately $80 newspaper fee for publication
Certified copies cost $2.50- $5.00
How do I get a fee waiver for court filing fees?
If you cannot afford the court costs, you can file an Affidavit of Poverty when you file your case.
The Affidavit must be notarized. Wait until you are with the notary before you sign it.
You can find the Affidavit form on the county clerk's website or office.
The judge will read your Affidavit and decide if your court fees should be waived
In some counties, the Affidavit will also waive the newspaper fees.
Check your county's requirements. You may need paperwork, such as pay stubs, when you file.
Back to top
What are the different ways that I can change my gender marker in Georgia?
In Georgia, you can get your gender marker changed legally:
on your birth certificate and/or
on your state ID or Driver's License
Back to top
What are the requirements if I want to change my gender marker on my birth certificate?
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, the Georgia Office of Vital Records requires that:
You must have had some surgical procedure towards &ldquo;changing your sex&rdquo;,
You must have a court order confirming the surgical procedure, and
You must have had a legal name change.
Back to top
What are the requirements if I want to change my gender marker on my ID/license?
To change your gender marker on your driver's license or state ID, the Department of Driver Services (DDS) requires that:
You pay a $5 change fee, and
You provide either a doctor's letter or a court order stating:
Your name,
Date of birth,
Date of gender confirming operation, and
Other identifying information.
Some doctors may provide a letter based on medical treatment other than surgery, such as hormone replacement therapy, but you should know that DDS may not accept it. You can provide your doctor with a sample letter to bring with you to DDS . It is important to know that a court order is almost always part of the public record. If you have privacy concerns and you do not need or want to change your Georgia birth certificate, asking your doctor for a letter may be a better option for you.
Back to top
How do I get a court order to change my gender marker?
To get a court order, you must file a petition to change your gender marker in the Superior Court in the county where you live.
You can either file to change your gender marker after you have gotten your name changed, OR
You can also file to change your gender marker at the same time you file to change your name. Add a line to your Petition for Name Change requesting a gender marker change. Then, take your medical records showing you've had surgery to affirm your gender identity to your final hearing. To protect your privacy, filing your medical records is not recommended.
You will get a court order after your final hearing is finished. This order can then be used to request a gender marker change on your birth certificate or state ID.
A court order is almost always part of the public record. This means that anyone can get a copy. You can also ask the judge to have your documents sealed. However, this means that the documents will be sealed from you, too. You should make sure to take good care of your own certified copies because you won't be able to get more copies if the court record is sealed.
Back to top
What can I do?
Contents
Where do I find the forms I need to file for a name change or gender marker change?
How do I file a case for a name change or gender marker change?
Where do I find the forms I need to file for a name change or gender marker change?
Name change forms are available for free online on your county's court website . If you go to the clerk's office, you may have to pay to have them printed. You can write in or type in an extra line on the Petition for Name Change, requesting a gender marker change.
Use this guided interview to create the forms needed to file for a name change.
Use this guided interview to create the forms needed to file for a gender marker change.
What forms do I need?
Check with the clerk of the court where you are filing your case to make sure you have the correct forms. In general, you will need to file:
General Civil Case Filing Form (This opens your case)
Petition for Name Change/Gender marker change (To say that you want your name and/or gender marker changed and that you are not doing it for fraud.)
Verification - To swear before a notary that your petition is true
Notice of Name Change- To be filed with the Clerk of Court and published in the newspaper
Affidavit of Poverty (optional - to request a fee waiver)
Back to top
How do I file a case for a name change or gender marker change?
You can file for a name change or gender marker change either separately or at the same time. File your forms in the Superior Court in the county where you live. In most counties, you can file either:
Online, or
In person at the clerk's office. If you are filing an affidavit of poverty, you may be required to file in person.
What is the process for getting a name change or gender marker change petition in Georgia?
File Your Petition
Complete all of the required forms
File these papers with the Clerk of Superior Court in your county.
If filing for a name change, arrange for the newspaper to publish your name change within 7 days of filing your case
Once 4 weeks of publication are complete, the newspaper will send you a Publisher's Affidavit saying they've published your name change. File this Publisher's Affidavit or bring it to your hearing.
Attend Your Final Hearing
After filing your case, you will be given a date for your hearing. If you are not given a hearing date, call or email the judge's office to ask for one.
You need to bring documents to the final hearing:
Your current photo ID
The Publisher's Affidavit (if you haven't filed it)
Medical record/doctor's letter if asking for gender marker change
Before leaving the court, read over the final order to make sure there are no mistakes in your old or new names. Let the judge know if there are any mistakes so that they can correct the order.
Use Your Court Order to Make Changes to Legal Documents
Go to the clerk's office to get 3-4 certified copies of the final hearing. Certified copies are required to make changes to your legal documents.
Some counties now offer electronic certified copies , which you can order online.
Take certified copies to the Department of Driver Services to change your license/ID
Take certified copies to Social Security for a new Social Security card
You may want to notify other people/places of your name change
Employer, school, bank, credit card company, healthcare providers, insurance company, tag office
In most states, you can also use a certified copy to change the name on your birth certificate.
Back to top
More info
Resources
Learn more about name changes and gender marker change s on the Campaign for Southern Equality website.
Read about trans rights in Georgia on TransEquality.org.
Research the rules for other states on TransEquality.org.
Forms
Use this guided interview to create the forms needed to file for a name change.
Use this guided interview to create the forms needed to file for a gender marker change.
Find the forms to file a name change or gender marker change on your county's court website .
Find a sample doctor's letter on this website.
Last Review and Update: Jul 20, 2022
Was this information helpful?
Yes
No
Other Resources
Learn with Brochures
Free Legal Answers
Gwinnett Family Law Clinic Forms
Magistrate Court Forms
Probate Court Forms
Featured Guides
We have created the following guides to help you navigate these common legal issues.
Foreclosure
Eviction
Consumer
Public Benefits
Victim Legal Assistance
How was your visit?
Let us know what you think of our site or make requests for new content.
Give Feedback
Back to top