Subscribe to our newsletter on LGBTQIA+ health
Thanks for joining the newsletter
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
Virtual health care, LGBTQ specialists
🌈 LGBTQIA+ dedicated team, offering care for adults nationwide
💊 Stress-free medication management
✅ Get care with or without insurance
queer healthcare
community support
Expert guidance
FOLX
holistic healthcare
community support
expert guidance
here for you.
We scale together
Join Now
Yes, we take insurance
Select insurance plans cover membership fees. You can also use your insurance to help pay for the cost of visits, medications, and labs*.
We accept insurance plans from:
No insurance? No problem. Learn more about paying for FOLX here .
Care on your terms
Mental Health Care
Therapy
Gender-Affirming Care
Primary Care
Sexual & Reproductive Health
Fertility & Family Building
Why FOLX?
81% of our providers identify as LGBTQIA+
Same or next day appointments
Stress-free medication management
A community that celebrates and supports you
“My experience has been phenomenal. Everyone has been so kind and taken great care of me. My journey has been made so pleasant and easy compared to how I thought it would be. Thank you FOLX ❤️”
“FOLX has saved my life. Living in Florida, I was scared I would never get access to HRT while living here and I would have to put my transition on pause. I’d put off being my true self for most of my life and didn’t want to go back to living a lie. Then I found FOLX and I’ve been able to get back on HRT. I’m so thankful!”
“What a game changer. Always knew who I was. But with the help of FOLX and my HRT, it has helped me with my outward appearance as well as my overall happiness, because at last I finally feel like my body and my mind are one. Thank you FOLX for making all this possible and helping me to achieve my goals and my dreams.”
“Through FOLX I&#x27;ve had medical issues solved that have been unaddressed by traditional doctors for years. The upfront pricing, easy access to appointments and 3-month refills solved my constant stress over getting my medications. Finding FOLX has been a life saver, thank you so much for making the struggle of getting medical care as a trans person so much easier.”
“Fantastic service, supportive staff and affordable care. Have been with FOLX for 1 year and plan on using them for many more.”
Explore member stories
A connected healthcare experience
LGBTQIA+ expert care & advice
Through our secure portal, you can message a FOLX clinician at any time, ensuring that expert care and advice are always just a click away.
Help navigating your care
Our Member Navigators are available to support you and help you find the right care in your area through our national referral network.
Find more than care, find community
The FOLX Community Platform is your gateway to a supportive and safe space where you can access events, educational resources, and peer support groups.
Comprehensive care
A range of care that affirms your identity and partners with you to make healthcare choices that suit your life.
Schedule your well exam
Your annual wellness exam includes ..
Justin
Jess
Heather
Kirsten
WH
Ahmaad
Kate
We&#x27;re more than just clinicians – we&#x27;re part of the community.
We celebrate diversity, with over 1 in 3 of our clinicians identifying as transgender, nonbinary, genderqueer, gender diverse, or two-spirit, and nearly 4 in 5 as bisexual, gay, lesbian, pansexual, or queer.
Meet our clinicians
Featured in
$0 for the first 10 days, then as low as $29/mo.
Join Now
Visits with an LGBTQIA+ expert clinician
Messaging with your care team anytime
A Community Platform where you can find support
Referrals for specialists from our vetted network
Easy management of your care online
Your ultimate go-to resources
our Blog
The Library
Explore the Library
Got Questions?
FAQS
Browse ThE Message Center
50% OFF
The Modern Classic
A short description goes in here
Shop Now
25% OFF
The Modern Classic
A short description goes in here
Shop Now
50% OFF
The Modern Classic
A short description goes in here
Shop Now
25% OFF
The Modern Classic
A short description goes in here
Shop Now
Sign up for our newsletter
stay up to date on LGBTQIA+ healthcare
Choose your state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia (DC) Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming
I agree to have my email stored and used to receive the newsletter By signing up you accept the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .
Thank you for signing up for our newsletter!
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
Healthcare for
every body