Skip to main content
Medicaid for Adults
Free or low-cost medical benefits for adults with a variety of health needs
Explore this Section
About Medicaid for Adults
Apply for Medicaid
Medicaid Expansion
Medicaid Programs
Pregnancy Coverage
Medicaid for Workers with Disabilities
Medicare Medicaid Members
Medicare Savings Program
Manage my Adult Medicaid
About Medicaid for Adults
Changes are coming to Medicaid in 2027. Learn about upcoming changes and what they may mean for your coverage.
Medicaid offers healthcare coverage that address a variety of health needs, including coverage for low-income adults, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities who meet certain income criteria .
Medicaid plans available
Basic Plan – If you don’t typically have special health needs, and need basic health, prevention, and wellness benefits, this plan is for you. The basic plan includes annual physicals, immunizations, most prescriptions, doctor and hospital visits, and more.
Enhanced Plan – If you have a disability or special health need, this plan has all the benefits of the basic plan, plus additional specialized benefits. Most of the time, you will need a referral from a doctor to become eligible for this plan.
Medicare Medicaid Coordinated Plan – If you are enrolled in both Medicare and Medicaid (also known as dual eligibles), you may choose this plan. It has all the benefits of the enhanced plan, plus allows you to enroll in a managed care plan to help coordinate your Medicare and Medicaid benefits. Visit the Medicare Medicaid Members page for more information.
Idaho Health Plan Booklet
A booklet to guide you through your Medicaid benefits.
Member Benefit Booklet
What&#039;s covered
Medicaid will pay for services, such as:
Annual physicals
Counseling and mental health services
Dental (dental services)
Doctor visits
Durable Medical Equipment
Emergency Medical Transportation
Home health care (doctor prescribed)
Hospice care
Immunizations
Inpatient and outpatient hospital care
Lab tests
Medical equipment and supplies
Medical transportation services
Nurse midwife
Pregnancy and family planning services
Prescriptions
Primary Care Case Management
Prosthetics/orthotics
Substance abuse treatment
Smoking Cessation
Vision (vision services)
Weight loss
X-rays
Preventive Health Assistance (PHA) Benefit
The Weight Management benefit is designed to help eligible members, and their families improve their lifestyle through:
Physical fitness
Balanced diet
Personal health education
If you qualify, you can earn up to $200 each year to help pay for services offered by PHA providers such as participation in the National Diabetes Prevention Program , fees for a weight management program, a gym membership, healthy lifestyle classes, or nutrition classes or services. Any additional fees are your responsibility.
Weight management qualification guidance
You must have full basic or enhanced Medicaid coverage to qualify.
You must also meet the following criteria by age: Be an adult over 21 and have a body mass index of 30 or higher or 18.5 or lower according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention adult body mass index calculator .
Be a child 5-21 and have a body mass index that falls in either the overweight or the underweight category according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention child and teen body mass index calculator .
If you are on the Home Care for Certain Disabled Children Program (Katie Beckett) and Medicare-Medicaid Coordinated Plan you aren’t eligible for these benefits.
Steps to sign up for the PHA program
If you’re interested in the program, visit your primary care provider (PCP).
Your PCP will initiate the process by printing and filling out their portion of the Preventive Health Assistance Agreement Form .
You then will need to fill out your section of the form.
Take the form to the weight management provider you’ve chosen ad get their signature. After all sections are complete, the form must be submitted to the PHA program for approval. The benefit will start on the date of approval.
Non-Emergency Medical Transportation Services (NEMT)
Idaho Medicaid contracts with Medical Transportation Management, Inc. (MTM.) to manage a statewide network of transportation providers for Idaho's NEMT services for Medicaid eligible members who have no other means of transportation. The Idaho NEMT program covers transportation in-state and out-of-state, to and from healthcare services covered under the Medicaid program.
MEMBER SERVICES
If you have a medical appointment but you don’t have a car, can’t operate a car, or don’t have a friend or family member who can take you, you can request transportation through MTM.
If you have a vehicle to transport yourself or family members to their appointments, please contact MTM and ask about their mileage reimbursement program.
MTM will review your request and decide if Medicaid will pay for your transportation. MTM will review your request based on the least expensive transportation available and the closest available Medicaid provider for the service.
If you have been referred for medical care outside your community, MTM may ask for a referral from your doctor before they will schedule your transportation.
You need to call at least two business days before your appointment.
You may reach MTM to request transportation by calling 877-503-1261, by visiting MTM's Medicaid Transportation website , or by using MTM's Transport Service Management Portal . Trips can be scheduled 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
If you or someone you’re helping has questions about MTM, you have the right to get help and information in your language at no cost. To talk to an interpreter, call 888-561-8747.
Appeals or Grievances: If you or someone you’re helping has questions about the grievance or appeal process, please call: 866-436-0457 or complete the MTM “contact us” on-line form . Information and personal contact information will be securely transmitted directly to MTM and will be kept confidential to the extent required by HIPAA.
If you or someone you are helping has questions about MTM, you have the right to get help and information in your language at no cost. To talk to an interpreter, call 1-888-561-8747.
Appeals or Grievances: If you or someone you are helping has questions about the grievance or appeal process, please call: 1-866-436-0457 or complete the MTM “contact us” on-line form . Information and personal contact information will be securely transmitted directly to MTM and will be kept confidential to the extent required by HIPAA.
If you have questions or feedback for the Medicaid NEMT Team responsible for overseeing the contract with MTM, you may complete our online feedback form, email the team at MedicaidTransport@dhw.idaho.gov , or call 800-296-0509.
Estate Recovery Process
Medicaid estate recovery is the process through which each state recovers the costs of medical services it has paid from the estate of the person who received those services. The Medicaid estate recovery program impacts two groups of people receiving Medicaid benefits:
Anyone over 55 who has received Medicaid assistance, and
Anyone who is permanently institutionalized and has received Medicaid assistance, regardless of age.
The estate recovery program may collect money from the estate of a deceased Medicaid member as repayment for any medical care services that were provided to the member and paid for by Medicaid, while the member was over 55, or permanently institutionalized, regardless of age.
Medical care includes a wide range of services, including nursing home and community based in-home care services. It also includes any hospital and prescription drug services the member received while in a nursing home, or while receiving in-home care. Medical care also includes capitation payments to Medicaid contracted health insurance companies or medical providers administering a defined package of benefits.
Federal law recognizes that the needs of certain relatives can take precedence over the state’s interest in recovering assets from the deceased. For this reason, states are not allowed to pursue Medicaid estate recovery under the following circumstances:
During the lifetime of the surviving spouse, regardless of where he or she lives.
From a surviving child who is under 21, or is blind or permanently disabled (based on Social Security criteria), regardless of where he or she lives.
Idaho Medicaid Estate Recovery will exempt all property, whether held in trust or not, if the property is owned by an American Indian or Alaskan Native and located within the boundaries of a tribal reservation.
As individual circumstances vary, and for more information, call the Estate Recovery Office at 866-849-3843 or email FinancialRecovery@dhw.idaho.gov .
Find Non-Emergency Medical Transportation for Medicaid members
Find NEMT for Medicaid members
Non-Emergency Medical Transportation
English and Spanish Estate Recovery Brochures
To see frequently asked questions about estate recovery, see our online brochures library for both English and Spanish versions of this document.
Brochures
Contacts
Medicaid Customer Service
Phone
888-528-5861
Email
MedicaidCS@dhw.idaho.gov
Appeals and Fair Hearings
Medicaid Appeals and Fair Hearings
If you disagree with a decision from the department about the benefits you receive, you can appeal that decision. See the library for more information.
Medicaid Appeal Information Library
Other services from Medicaid partners
External resources
Mental Health, Behavioral Health, Substance Use Disorder, and Residential Treatment
Services provided by Magellan. If you have questions regarding these services, please contact us: 855-202-0973.
Magellan of Idaho
External resources
Dental Services
Provided by MCNA Dental through the Idaho Smiles program. If you have questions regarding these services, please contact us: 855-233-6262.
MCNA Dental
External resources
Medicaid Transportation Services
Find non-emergency medical transportation for Medicaid participants.
Medicaid Transportation Services