Warning! Your browser is extremely outdated and not web standards compliant.
Your browsing experience would greatly improve by upgrading to a modern browser .
Find a Location:
Choose Service
Choose Service
Adolescent Substance Use Disorder
Continuing Care
Family Group Support Sessions
Gambling Addiction Treatment
LGBTQ Services
Medical Care
Medication Assisted Treatment
Mental Health Therapy
Outpatient Treatment
Peer Recovery Coaching
Psychiatric Services
Relapse Prevention
SAGE - Substance Abuse Group Education
Spanish Speaking Group Sessions
Address, City, or Zip
Search
Search
LGBTQIA+ Health at UCS
UCS Healthcare is a full-service healthcare clinic with LGBTQIA+-friendly doctors who treat your total health. We provide a quality experience and become your preferred choice for medical care in our office in West Des Moines, IA. Our clinic is open Monday to Friday, five days a week, 52 weeks every year. We provide LGBTQIA+ medical care and specialize in health services, including mental health, substance use disorder treatment, and more. This allows us to understand your needs better and give you the healthcare options you may need. Our clients come from across the state of Iowa. UCS also provides telehealth options for many services.
Everyone is welcome at UCS Healthcare. Our team members strive to offer essential services in a safe and inclusive environment that is sensitive to all situations. We want to know your pronouns, preferences, and gender identity so we can support you and make you feel comfortable. UCS's LGBTQIA+ medical care providers attend to all members of the LGBTQIA+ community. No matter what you need, UCS Healthcare is here to help.
LGBTQIA+-Friendly Doctors Serving the Des Moines Metro
UCS Healthcare's main clinic is located in West Des Moines, Iowa. We offer a wide array of services to benefit your health, and in each department, there are LGBTQIA+-friendly doctors to assist with your medical needs. If necessary, we can provide referrals to other LGBTQIA+-friendly medical specialists - take a look at our current list of providers to whom we refer our patients. We see patients M-F, FIVE days a week. We have been offering these services since 1997.
Get to Know Our LGBTQIA+ Health Care Providers
LeeAnn Albright, ARNP, FNP-C: Nurse Practitioner
David Depew, LMHT, CRC, CADC: Licensed Mental Health Therapist
Dr. Frank Filippelli, DO, PhD: Medical Director
TJ Guthrie, ARNP, FNP-BC: Nurse Practitioner
Rachel Kroeger, ARNP, PMHNP-BC: Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner
Linda Ream, ARNP, PHMNP-BC: Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner
Our West Des Moines clinic accepts appointments Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., call today to set up an appointment with our team.
UCS Medical Providers Schedule an Appointment
LGBTQIA+ Medical Care at UCS Healthcare
Our experts provide the same quality of care to all individuals at UCS Healthcare - without discrimination, bias, or judgment. Our intake process for new patients involves a questionnaire focusing on every aspect of your health and preferences. Our LGBTQIA+ healthcare providers have a wide range of medical services to choose from:
Complete medical and wellness care
Physicals
Acute illnesses
Chronic medical problems, such as high blood pressure and diabetes
Smoking cessation
Weight management
Preventive care
Mental health counseling and treatment
Outpatient psychiatric services
Birth control
Minor skin surgeries and procedures
Substance use disorders
Treating LGBTQIA+ Healthcare Issues
The team at UCS Healthcare is here to provide inclusive and judgment-free care to everyone we treat. Our LGBTQIA+ healthcare providers prioritize every individual's needs and build an integrative health plan tailored to you. UCS Healthcare specializes in LGTBQIA+ medical care in Des Moines, including:
Hormone replacement therapy
Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) clinic
Screenings and treatment for hepatitis B & STIs, AIDS, and HIV testing
LGBTQIA+ and Mental Health Services
UCS makes it easy to get the integrated care you need. Whether you seek standard medical care, LGBTQIA+-specific services, or mental health care, we support you. Many members of the LGBTQIA+ community face difficult times while coming out, questioning, or transitioning. This can significantly impact your mental health and well-being, and UCS wants to be there to help and support you along your unique journey. We want you to know that you're never alone, and you can seek help in a way that makes sense to you, with individual or group therapy sessions available.
Substance Use Disorder Health Care Services
Our goal is to look out for your total health, and the medical providers at UCS will help you understand how a substance use disorder impacts your physical health. As a clinic specializing in medication assisted and substance use disorder treatment, your primary health provider will easily be able to refer you to the care options you need, most within UCS Healthcare.
Visit Our Experienced LGBTQIA+ Health Care Providers
Whether you're questioning your identity, transitioning, or seeking a welcoming healthcare experience, UCS Healthcare is here to help. We have many experienced and caring providers who understand the unique healthcare concerns of members of the LGBTQIA+ community. Our team can help you with standard medical care, LGBTQIA+-specific health care, mental health therapy, psychiatric care, substance use disorder treatment, and more. Learn more about our treatment options, or find a location today.
UCS Healthcare offers individualized healthcare services for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer communities in a safe, inclusive, and friendly environment. At UCS Healthcare, all patients, including LGBTQIA individuals, are treated as unique individuals. Our goal is to be your partner in total health, and UCS Healthcare has been operating in this way for more than twenty-five years. Appointments are available Monday through Friday at our West Des Moines Clinic. To schedule an appointment, you can call us at 515-280-3680.
UCS Healthcare supports state and community LGBTQ IA service providers and organizations, including One Iowa , Capital City Pride , The Iowa LGBTQ Chamber of Commerce , and the Trans Lives Festival .
Our services include:
Full family medical care, primary care and routine exams, treatments for acute and chronic illnesses, immunizations, physicals, preventative care, substance use disorder treatment, mental health counseling and psychotherapy, medication assisted treatment for opiate and alcohol abuse disorders, substance use screenings, gambling addiction treatment, contraception management, STI prevention, testing and treatment, pharmacist on-site in clinic, pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), gender-affirming hormone therapy, pre and post gender-affirming surgery support, gender-affirming voice therapy, support groups for LGBTQIA+ individuals and families.
Meet Our Providers:
View Profile
LeeAnn Albright
ARNP, FNP-C
Nurse Practitioner
She/Her/Hers
View Profile
Dr. Frank Filippelli
DO, PhD
Medical Director
He/Him/His
Education/Degrees
Frank Filippelli, DO, PhD, serves as the medical director at UCS Healthcare. He is a native of Des Moines, Iowa, and attended Lincoln High School and the University of Iowa. Dr. Filippelli received his undergraduate degree in Pharmacy and then completed his Master’s and PhD in Medicinal Chemistry at the UI College of Pharmacy. He has worked as a pharmacist in various Des Moines, Iowa City, and Cedar Rapids pharmacies. Dr. Filippelli received post-graduate training at the Dalton Research Center at the University of Missouri, Columbia.
After his post-doctoral studies, he pursued an academic career at Drake University College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences from January 1986 through May 1995. There, he was recognized by the Iowa Pharmacy Association and participated in the Young Pharmacist’s Leadership Conference. After leaving Drake, Dr. Filippelli attended medical school at Des Moines University, graduating in June 1999, and then completed his residency in Family Medicine in 2002.
View Profile
TJ Guthrie
ARNP FNP-BC
Nurse Practitioner
515-280-3860
View Profile
Rachel Mack
ARNP, PMHNP-BC
Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner
She/Her/Hers
View Profile
Mollie O'Brien
DNP, ARNP
Nurse Practitioner
She/Her/Hers
Education/Degrees
Mollie received her BSN from St. Ambrose University and her Doctor of Nursing Practice from the University of Iowa. She practices primary care and MAT services at UCS. In the MAT program, she offers a patient-centered approach to supporting individuals in their recovery process. In her primary care practice, she enjoys servicing individuals throughout their lifespan, from newborn through geriatric, with a specific focus on chronic disease management and treatment of hepatitis C.
Things I enjoy outside of the office
When she is not in the clinic, she can be found hanging out with her two children, drinking coffee, and enjoying the great outdoors.
View Profile
Linda Ream
ARNP, PHMNP-BC
Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner
She/Her/Hers
View Profile
Dr. Joshua Tessier
Chief Medical Officer
He/Him/His
Career Background
Dr. Joshua Tessier, DO is a family medicine specialist in West Des Moines, IA. He graduated from Des Moines University in 2008. He is affiliated with multiple medical facilities including Mercyone, Des Moines Medical Center and St. Anthony Regional Hospital. Dr. Tessier is accepting new patients and telehealth appointments at UCS Healthcare. Dr. Tessier is board certified in Addiction Medicine.