CIRCUIT COURT FOR City/County , MARYLAND
Located at Court Address
Telephone
Case No.
IN THE MATTER OF:
Your current legal name
Street Address
City, State, Zip
FOR CHANGE OF NAME TO:
Name you want to be known as
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME OF AN ADULT
(Md. Rule 15-901)
NOTES: Use this form to ask the court the change your name. File it in the county in which you live,
carry on a regular business, work, habitually engage in a vocation, or were born. Do not use this form to
change the name of a minor child, or in connection with an adoption or divorce.
• The Clerk of Court is required by law to notify the State Board of Elections (SBE) of a court-ordered
change of name. The SBE database may still contain information linking your new name to your
former name, even if the case file is made confidential. Please contact the SBE to determine how to
request shielding of this information and/or to sever the link in the MDVOTERS database between
your new name and your former name.
• Attach your birth certificate or any other document(s) with your current name (e.g., driver’s
license, passport, court order for change of name, divorce decree restoring your former name,
adoption decree).
• Learn more at https://mdcourts.gov/legalhelp/family/namechange.
I, Your current name
, whose address is Address
, whose telephone number is Telephone number , and whose
e-mail address (if any) is E-mail address , state that:
1. I was born on Date of birth
in City, state, county, country
.
2. I am filing this petition in this county/Baltimore City because I (select one):
☐ live here. ☐ carry on a regular business here. ☐ work here.
☐ habitually engage in a vocation here. ☐ was born here.
3. The name I was given at birth is Birth name
.
CC-DR-060 (Rev. 08/2025) Page 1 of 2
Case No.
4. Complete this section if it applies.
My name has been changed to the following since birth for the following reasons:
(List any reasons why your name may have changed since birth, for example, marriage,
divorce, or adoption.)
Name changed to: Reason:
5. I am requesting that my name be changed to Name you want to be known asbecause:
6. Select one:
☐ I have never registered as a sexual offender in any state.
☐ I am registered or previously have been required to register as a sexual offender under the
following name(s):
Name(s) (including any suffix): State(s) where registration is/was required:
7. I am not requesting a name change for any illegal or fraudulent purpose.
FOR THESE REASONS, I request the court to issue an order changing my name from
Current legal name to Name you want to be known as .
I, Petitioner’s current name
, solemnly affirm under the penalties of perjury that the
contents of this document are true to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief.
Date
Street Address
City, State, Zip
E-mail
Petitioner’s Signature
Printed Name
Telephone
Fax
CC-DR-060 (Rev. 08/2025) Page 2 of 2