Go to Content
In-person and telehealth available
24 Pennacook Street
Manchester ,
NH
03104
USA
Get Directions
View Hours
Retrieving hours...
603-669-7321
Book Online
Operated by Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
Operated by Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
Prescriptions available
Insurance not required
Walk in to get emergency contraception
Quick appointments
We’ll do everything we can to help you get
high-quality, affordable care.
We accept:
Aetna
Anthem
Blue Cross
Blue Cross Blue Shield
Blue Shield
CBA
Cigna
Consolidated Health Plans
First Choice Health
FirstHealth
Health Plans Inc
HPHC
MVP Healthcare
One Health
Oxford Health Plans
Strategic Resource Company
Tufts Health Plan
UHCSR Student Insurance
United
Not covered?
You may qualify for state funding.
If you're concerned about cost, ask about low- or no-cost services.
We will never turn you away if you can’t pay.
Find out how to
get affordable coverage
and what to consider when choosing a plan.
*Most health insurance plans cover prescription birth control, annual wellness exams, and STI/HIV screenings with no copay. Contact your health insurance company to find out if the services you need are covered.
Payment Information
You must pay on the day of your appointment unless you’ve made other arrangements.
We accept:
Cash
Check
Major Credit/Debit Cards
Money orders
In-person:
Appointments directly at the clinic
Telehealth:
Remote care through phone/video
Abortion
Birth Control
Emergency Contraception (Morning-After Pill)
Gender-Affirming Care
HIV Services
Pregnancy Testing and Planning
Sexual and Reproductive Concerns
STD Testing and Treatment
Vaccines
Wellness and Preventive Care
Day
Hours
Note
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Closed
Holidays and Closures
We're closed:
New Year&#x27;s Day,
Memorial Day,
Juneteenth,
Independence Day,
Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day,
Christmas Eve,
Christmas Day and
Day after Christmas
Appointment Policies and Information
Our scheduling team is available to speak with you Monday - Friday, from 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM. Call 1-866-476-1321.
We are happy to offer the New Hampshire Family Planning Program at this health center. Please note, to qualify for this program, you must bring the following documentation: 4 weeks of most recent paystubs (if paid biweekly, this means 2 paystubs), a US Passport or birth certificate, and a driver's license or picture school ID for proof of residency (if a school ID is unavailable, any document with a home address will suffice, i.e. medical record, report card, etc). For more information, please click here.
Childcare Policies
We do not provide childcare services. We request that you please make childcare arrangements.
Only infants and toddlers in a car seat or stroller are allowed in the exam room. Please make arrangements for childcare for any other children.
Services Offered
You can fill your birth control prescriptions at our health center instead of the pharmacy. during all hours Health Center is open. To refill a prescription over the phone for birth control pills or rings:
1. Call 866-476-1321 and choose option 2 for
“prescriptions/lab results/post procedures.”
2. Enter your date of birth.
3. Hit option 1 for prescription questions.
4. Hit option 1 again for pill pick up.
Resources
Order Birth Control
Access Our Medical Forms
Order Emergency Contraception
In-person:
Appointments directly at the clinic
Telehealth:
Remote care through phone/video
Abortion
Birth Control
Emergency Contraception (Morning-After Pill)
Gender-Affirming Care
HIV Services
Pregnancy Testing and Planning
Sexual and Reproductive Concerns
STD Testing and Treatment
Vaccines
Wellness and Preventive Care
Day
Hours
Note
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Closed
This health center is operated by Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
Pricing and/or insurance information are estimates made in good faith
and are subject to change at any time. This health center supports
and welcomes all people regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity
or biological sex, including but not limited to lesbian, gay, bisexual,
queer, questioning, and intersex clients. The information provided on
this site is for informational purposes and does not constitute medical
or legal advice.
Planned Parenthood of Northern New England is a tax-exempt 501(c)(3) charitable organization.
For further information, please refer to our Terms of Use .
&copy; Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
Learn About This Affiliate
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all