IBM WebSphere Portal
Ohio Department of Health
A➝Z
index
top-help
odx-helplink-label
top-search
odx-searchbox-label
Type in your search keywords and hit enter to submit or escape to close
top-search
top-close
{}
Web Content Viewer
Actions
ODH
Information & Programs
Vital Statistics
How to Order Certificates
December 31, 2024
|
Agency
Certified Birth Record - $21.50
Certified Death Record - $21.50
Certified Fetal Death Record - $21.50
Stillbirth Certificate - $0
Acknowledgement of Paternity - $7.00
Adoption File Release - $20.00
Heirloom Birth Certificate - $25.00
As of Jan. 1, 2025, the fee for the search of an Ohio vital birth or death record is $21.50 whether a record is located or not per ORC 3705.24 (A) (1)(a)(ii). If no birth record is found, a certified statement of no record will be issued only if the applicant is requesting their own record or is the legal guardian of a minor child. Any payment made that exceeds $21.50 by more than $2 will be refunded. This search fee does not pertain to requests for our adoption files nor the affidavit of paternity.
Please note: If you have mailed an application to request a certified copy and it is postmarked prior to Jan. 1, 2025, you will receive a refund if no record is found.
Ohio law ( Ohio Administrative Code Section 3701-5-11 ) states that death records older than 50 years and birth records older than 125 years may be removed from the Ohio Department of Health (ODH) and sent to the Ohio History Connection for archival. All records for deaths prior to 1971 are in the custody of the History Connection. Customers may obtain certified copies of pre-1971 death records by contacting the local health department in which the death took place – find the appropriate office on our listing of Ohio local Vital Statistics offices . For more information about the Ohio History Connection, including its online death index for certain years, visit www.ohiohistory.org .
There are three ways to order certificates from the Bureau of Vital Statistics:
Online
The simplest way to get a certified copy of a birth or death record is to order online using a credit card. Our online order portal accepts Visa, Mastercard, Discover, and American Express cards. Orders are processed in our office within five business days. Expected delivery time in the continental United States via the U.S. Postal Service is three weeks.
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY BEFORE ORDERING ONLINE
Orders cannot be canceled once submitted.
Ohio records only .
Death records more than 50 years old must be requested from a local vital statistics office where the event occurred .
Birth records: 1908–present .
Online birth certificates are abstract copies, valid for all U.S. legal uses, including passports .
Do NOT order online for genealogy, dual citizenship, international legal matters, or international marriage – mail-in application required.
Enter information exactly as shown on the record , including the mother’s birth (maiden) surname, not her married name. Errors will delay processing .
No expedited service . Orders ship via the U.S. Postal Service regular mail only.
Visit Online Vital Record Ordering for Ohio Bureau of Vital Statistics .
By Mail
To request a birth, death, fetal death, stillbirth certificate or an affidavit of paternity, please complete the Application for Certified Copies and send it to the address below. Click the "Download" button to view or download a copy of this application form.
Ohio Department of Health
Bureau of Vital Statistics
PO Box 15098
Columbus, Ohio 43215-0098
Once completed, send the application with the total fee included. For mail orders we only accept checks and money orders (in U.S. funds). Please do not send cash or credit card information. We do not offer expedited mail service. All mail -in orders typically take four to six weeks to process. To check the status of your order after three weeks, please email Vitalstat@odh.ohio.gov .
If you would like to order a decorative heirloom birth record click here to download the form .
In Person
If you are living, working, or travelling in the State of Ohio, there are more than 100 local offices that have in-person availability or other pathways for same-day certified copies of Ohio vital records. We recommend you review our listing of Ohio local vital statistics offices for the location and contact information of a local health department in Ohio near you for the fastest possible service.
Our state Bureau of Vital Statistics office is open Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for customers in central Ohio who need an expedited copy of their birth record and can pay with a credit card. No other services are available same day. We are located at 4200 Surface Road, Columbus, Ohio. To ensure we can help you promptly, please use the "Download" button on this webpage to obtain and complete the Application for Certified Copies before your arrival .
For other questions or information, please e-mail Vitalstat@odh.ohio.gov .
odx-attachment
This downloadable Application for Certified Copies can be completed and mailed or presented in person to the Bureau of Vital Statistics.
odx-download
odx-download
Share this
Expand All Sections
Web Content Viewer
Actions
top-menu
top-close
top-help
top-search
odx-searchbox-label
Submit your search
Close
Complementary Content
${title} ${badge}
${loading}