Child Name Change
Child Name Change
Each district court has specific local rules that may apply in your case. Check with the clerk of the district court in your county. If you fail to follow the local rules, you may not be able to finish your case.
Introduction
The procedure for legally changing the name(s) of a minor child or children is complicated. Note: In Nebraska, a “minor” is a child who has not yet turned age 19. It is up to you to decide whether and how you use a lawyer in your case. The law allows you to do the case without a lawyer, which is also known as proceeding pro se (pronounced “pro-say”). Another option is to hire a lawyer to do only part of your case. This is called Limited Scope Representation. To find out more about Limited Scope Representation click on this link , or here http://nefindalawyer.com/ .
These forms and instructions are intended only for cases where:
A parent wishes to change a minor child’s or children’s name(s);
The petitioning adult and the minor child(ren) have/has resided in the county where the Petition is to be filed for at least one year before filing the Petition;
The minor child(ren)’s other parent consents to the change of the minor child(ren)’s name(s), or you know the other parent will not contest the action to change the minor child(ren)’s name(s), or the address of the minor child(ren)’s other parent is unknown.
YOU CANNOT USE THESE FORMS IF:
You do not know if the minor child(ren)’s other parent will consent to the change of the minor child(ren)’s name(s); or
You know the minor child(ren)’s other parent will contest the change of the minor child(ren)’s name(s).
Facts About Filing for a Name Change in Nebraska
Any adult wishing to change a child’s or children’s name(s) may file a Petition in the district court in the county in which the adult and minor child(ren) reside so long as the adult and minor child(ren) have been bona fide residents of that county for at least one (1) year before filing the Petition for a name change.
You may change the minor child(ren)’s first name(s), middle name(s), and/or last name(s).
If you have more than one minor child in your custody and you want to change their names at the same time, you can do that in one Petition – you do not need to file a separate petition for each child. You can simply list each child’s name in the Petition.
If you are requesting different name changes for more than one child, then you will need to file a separate Petition for each child. This will involve paying a separate filing fee and publication fee for each child.
If you are a single mother who has more than one minor child in your custody whose names you want to change, but there is more than one father involved, then you will need to file a separate Petition for each child. This will involve paying a separate filing fee and publication fee for each child.
There is a cost to file a Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children. Once you file the Petition the case will be assigned a case number. This number must be on all documents filed with the court. You should be aware that there are additional costs associated with providing notice that you intend to change a minor child’s or children’s name(s) (see Legal Notice below).
Statute requires a Legal Notice of your Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children must be published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in the newspaper, which will cost money. Before filing paperwork with the court you should call the newspaper and ask the cost of publishing a Legal Notice for two (2) consecutive weeks (costs differ from newspaper to newspaper) and have that money available before you file the Petition.
In instances where a petitioner may be endangered by the publication of the Notice of Filing of a Petition for a Name Change, the requirement to publish may be waived by order of the Court. Neb. Rev. Stat § 25-21,271(2)(b) . A petitioner believing, they, or a party for whom they are petitioning would be endangered by publication may request the requirement be waived.
If you file a Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children without the assistance of an attorney you must complete all the forms necessary. The clerk of the district court cannot assist you in preparing any legal documents, or advise you of the process.
Forms
Complete list of forms and instructions.
Filing the forms
To begin the process you must take your completed Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children (DC 6:11.1) and the Confidential Party Information - Name Change of a Minor Child (DC 6:11.7) , along with the filing fee to the clerk of the district court in the county in which you and the minor child(ren) reside. Please refer to the Instructions for Completing the Petition (DC 6:11.1a) and the Instructions for Completing the Confidential party Information - Name Change of a Minor Child (DC 6:11.7a) for details on how to fill out these two forms.
Legal Notice by Publication
After filing the Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children you must give notice that you are changing the name of the minor child(ren),or obtain an order waiving the requirement to publish.
In cases a petitioner is required to publish the Notice of Filing for a Name Change, the petitioner will take the notice to the newspaper and publish, the notice in the county where the Petition is filed, or in a newspaper in general circulation in the county. Before you can prepare the Legal Notice you will need to set a hearing date. To set a hearing date ask the clerk for the name and phone number of the bailiff or other court personnel to contact in order to schedule the hearing. The hearing should not be scheduled sooner than approximately four (4) weeks from the time you filed your Petition, to give you the necessary time to have the Legal Notice published once a week for two (2) weeks prior to the hearing.
Once you have a hearing date you should immediately complete the Legal Notice (DC 6:11.2) form using the Instructions for Completing the Legal Notice for Publication (DC 6:11.2a) . Contact the newspaper to arrange for publication of the Legal Notice and ask the newspaper to provide the court with proof that the Legal Notice was published at least once a week for two (2) weeks. Some papers will mail this proof (called an Affidavit of Publication) directly to you. If that happens, take the original Affidavit of Publication to the clerk of the district court for filing.
If you wish to request a court waive the requirement to publish the Notice of Filing of Name Change, you must complete the Petitioner's Showing and Request for Waiver of Publication . This should be filed at the same time as the Petition for Name Change. A showing means you need to present evidence in the form of documentation to support your request. Note: This form does require hard copy documents supporting the request for the waiver be provided by the petitioner to the court. The clerk’s office will notify you of the judge’s decision in writing (or e-mail if your e-mail address is registered with court). If the judge grants your order, you may proceed without publication and can contact the court to set a hearing date. If the judge denies your request to waive publication, you will need to complete the steps for publication noted above.
Consent by Other Parent
If the other parent agrees to the name change for the child(ren), that parent should complete and sign a Consent (DC 6:11.3) which you will give to the court at the time of the hearing. Please refer to the Instructions for Completing the Consent (DC 6:11.3a) for details on how to fill out this form.
Notice to Parent
You will need to send a copy of a Notice to Parent (DC 6:11.4) to the other parent giving them notice that you filed the Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children. Please refer to the Instructions for Completing the Notice to Parent (DC 6:11.4a) for details on how to fill out this form. A copy of the Notice must be sent to the other parent by certified mail within five (5) days after publication in the newspaper. If the other parent pays child support, the Notice must be sent to the other parent at the address last provided to the clerk of the district court. Call the office of the clerk of the district court where the child support order was entered and ask for the other parent’s current address. If you know that the other parent no longer lives at the address provided to you by the clerk, you may want to mail the Notice to both the address provided by the clerk and the address where you know the other parent currently lives. If no address for the other parent is on file with the clerk of the district court because no court case has ever been filed against the other parent and you do not know the address of the other parent, you do not need to prepare and file the Notice to Parent.
When you go to the post office to mail the Notice, ask the post office to send it by certified mail to the other parent. You do not need to send the Notice by registered mail, nor do you need to insure it. Also, you do not need to have the other parent sign for the Notice when it is delivered; it is okay if any adult signs for the Notice when it is delivered. Keep the green card that the post office sends back to you in case the court wants to see it at the hearing.
You will need to mail a copy of the published notice (what was in the newspaper) to the last known address of all other people appearing to have a legal interest in this matter. This has to be done within 5 days after the notice has been published in the newspaper for the first time .
To tell the court that you mailed these copies, you will complete and file an Affidavit of Mailing Published Notice (DC 6:6.8) using the Instructions for Completing the Affidavit of Mailing Published Notice (DC 6:6.8a) . This form MUST be filed with the court within 10 days after you mailed the copy of the newspaper’s published notice to all interested people.
The court will not hear your case until this form is filed, so make certain you file it before your hearing.
In this form you are swearing under oath that you mailed them. This form must be notarized.
Court Hearing on Name Change
Before the hearing date you must prepare the Decree for Name Change of a Minor Child (DC 6:11.5) using the Instructions for Completing the Decree for Name Change of a Minor Child (DC 6:11.5a) . If you are changing the name of more than one child you must prepare a Decree of Name Change of a Minor Child for each child for whom you are requesting a name change. Prepare your testimony for the hearing. You should bring two copies of each Decree for Name Change of a Minor Child to the hearing. The judge will keep the original signed Decree for the court file and will give you a copy for your records.
Before the hearing date you should check with the clerk of the district court to make sure the newspaper has filed an affidavit saying the Legal Notice was published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks or, if the affidavit is sent to you, you must file it with the court. You should take file stamped copies of the Affidavit of Publication and Notice to Parent to the hearing in case the judge wants you to have them marked as Exhibits at the hearing.
Before the hearing date you should also check with the judge’s bailiff to see if the minor child(ren) will be allowed in the courtroom during the hearing and whether or not the judge will want the minor child(ren) present during the hearing.
You must attend the hearing and testify under oath about the issues raised in the Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children. The issues raised are covered in the Instructions for Minor Child(ren) Name Change Hearing (DC 6:11.6) .
Once the court has granted your request for the minor child’s or child(ren)’s name change(s) and has signed the Decree(s) for Name Change of a Minor you should get a certified copy of the Decree(s) for Name Change of a Minor Child from the clerk of the district court. Once you have received a certified copy of the Decree(s), you may use the certified copy(ies) to change the minor child(ren)’s records, including Social Security Administration records.
Home
Administration
Nebraska Court Scam Alert
Branch Overview
News and Media Information
Media Releases
Exhibit List for Judicial Resources Commission Hearing
News
Credential Application
Credentialed Media
Media Coordinators
Reporters&#039; Guide to Nebraska Trial Court Procedures
Nebraska Court Coverage Guidelines for Judges, Attorneys, and Journalists
Three Judge Panel in a Nebraska Capital Murder Case Reference Sheet
Memo to Editors and News Directors Regarding Public Comment by Judges
Nebraska State Court Appearances Involving Inmates
Replacing a Judge in the Nebraska Trial Court System
How to Report on Nebraska’s Trial Courts
Pop-up Student Journalist Class
Commemoration of the Supreme Court Decision in Nebraska Press Association v. Stuart – 1976
The Responsibilities of Judgeship
Student Journalist Materials for Reporting Education Session: Nebraska’s Appellate Level Court
Committees & Commissions
Access to Justice Commission & Committees
Improvement of Justice - Committees
Judges | Employee Associations
Judges | Staff | Mediation Committees
Judicial Nominating Commissions
Judicial Nominating Commissioner&#039;s Manual
Lawyer Committees
Professional Ethics
Interpreter Ethics
Probation Code of Ethics
Professional Ethics for Mediators
Attorney Discipline & Ethics
Counsel for Discipline
How to File an Attorney Grievance
Attorney Sanctions
Lawyer Ethics Opinions
Judicial Discipline & Ethics
How to File a Judicial Complaint
Nebraska Judicial Discipline Archive
Judicial Ethics Committee Opinions
State Library
Catalog Search
Online Legal Resources
Judicial Branch Awards
Distinguished Judge Awards
Everyday Heroes
Judicial Branch Recognition Program
Evaluation Criteria
Nomination Procedure
Prior Recipients
Recognition Committee
Attorneys
Nebraska Lawyers Assistance Program
Attorney Services Division
Admission to the Practice of Law
Admissions: General Instructions (FAQs)
Application for Admission by Examination
Application for Admission on Motion
Deadlines and Fees
Re-Application for Admission by Exam
Annual Licensure
Counsel for Discipline
Guardians ad Litem Information
Mandatory Continuing Legal Education
Judicial Vacancies and Judicial Nominating Commission Information
Judicial Vacancy Application Package
Approved Financial Institutions
Search Nebraska Licensed Attorneys
Unauthorized Practice of Law
Publications & Reports
Publications & Reports Archive
Public
Glossary
Guardianship and Conservatorship Information
Guardianship | Conservatorship FAQ
Jury Service
Marriage Ceremony Compilation
Marriage Ceremony 1
Marriage Ceremony 2
Marriage Ceremony 3A
Marriage Ceremony 3B
Marriage Ceremony 4
Marriage Ceremony 5A
Marriage Ceremony 5B
Marriage Ceremony 6
Voters’ Guide to Nebraska’s Judicial Retention Elections
2026 Judicial Retention Election
Self-Represented Litigant Resources
Appeals Resources
Appealing a Workers&#039; Compensation Court Decision to the Court of Appeals
Appealing to Supreme Court or Court of Appeals
Appealing|Setting Aside a County Court Civil or Small Claims Judgment
Handgun Certificate Denial|Revocation Appeal
Divorce - No Children - Updated Format
Name Change Adult - Updated Format
Name Change - Adult
Protection Order - Domestic Violence
Protection Order - Harassment
Filing a Small Claims Case
Protection Order - Sexual Assault
Small Claims Court Defendents
Nebraska Judicial Electronic Exhibits System
Rules
Rule Amendments
External Court Rules
Personnel and Miscellaneous Rules
Administrative Policies & Schedules
Judgment Interest Rate
Filing Fees and Court Costs
Court Records Search Policy for Nebraska Courts
Media Information and Court Coverage Protocol
Records Retention Disposition Schedules
Temporary Appointment of County Judges Policy
Nebraska Domestic Abuse Protection Order Policy
Parenting Act Fund Policy
Courts
Appellate Courts Offices
Clerk of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals
Daily Minutes
Reporter of Decisions Office
Appellate Court Call Calendar
Supreme Court
Supreme Court Justices
Supreme Court Call
Supreme Court Proposed Call
Supreme Court Opinions
Traveling Oral Arguments: Outreach
Ceremonial Sessions
Session Livestream
Oral Argument Archive
Court of Appeals
Court of Appeals Judges
Court of Appeals Call
Court of Appeals Proposed Call
Court of Appeals Opinions
College Campus Initiative: Outreach
Ceremonial Sessions
Oral Argument Archive
District Court
Calendar Search
Clerks & Contact Information
Court Reporters
District Court Judges
Administrative Orders and Policies - District Court
Separate Juvenile Courts
Court Contacts
Separate Juvenile Court Judges
Court Reporting Personnel
Administrative Orders and Policies - Separate Juvenile Courts
County Court
Calendar Search
County Court Contacts
County Court Judges
Administrative Orders and Policies - County Court
Problem-Solving Courts
Contacts
PSC News
Problem-Solving Court Types
Adult Drug and DUI Courts
Family Treatment Courts
Juvenile Drug Courts
Mental Health Courts
Reentry Courts
Veterans Treatment Courts
Young Adult Courts
Resources
Workers&#039; Compensation Court
District Map
Programs & Services
Access to Justice Commission
Committee on Equity and Fairness
Consortium of Tribal, State, and Federal Courts
Court User Survey
Judge Frankie Moore Self-Represented Litigant Access and Innovation Award
Self-Represented Litigation Committee
Community Engagement and Public Information
Court of Appeals’ College Campus Initiative
Events and Celebrations
Nebraska Probation Week
Nebraska Problem-Solving Court Month
Nebraska Trial Court Week
History of the Nebraska Judicial Branch
National Adoption Day
Social Media
Speakers Bureau
Supreme Court High School & Law School Argument Sessions
Teacher & Student Resources
Education
Judicial Branch Education
Court Improvement Project
CIP Publications
What Now? Child Welfare Guide
What Now? Juvenile Justice Guide
Supreme Court Commission on Children in the Courts
Subcommittees
Through the Eyes of the Child Initiative
Teams
Education and Events
Information for Youth and Families
Information for Professionals and Stakeholders
Cross-Over Youth and Status Offenders
Caselaw Updates
About
Resources
Archived CIP Newsletters
Bench Cards
Data & Research
Other Resources and Websites
Videos & Trainings
Office of the Public Guardian
Court Appointment Process
FAQ
Guardian and Conservator Education
Internships, Externships, and Volunteer Programs
Resources for Private Guardians and Conservators
Aging & Adult
COVID-19 Resources
Child & Family
Contact Someone in Your Area
Developmental Disabilities
Financial Resources
Frequently Asked Questions for Guardians and Conservators
Mental Health
Webinars
Waiting List
Ward Memorials
OPG - Blog
Language Access
Interpreter Certification Pathway
Interpreter Resources
Standard Operating Procedures
Statewide Register of Interpreters
Mediation & Restorative Justice
Find a Mediator
Mediator Portal
ODR Events
Mediation Centers
Mediating a Parenting Plan
Parenting Education Classes
Restorative Justice
ODR Documents & Resources
Parenting Act Mediator Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Probation
Adult Probation Services Division
Adult Field Services
Emerging Adult Pilot Program
Resources
Services
Juvenile Probation Services Division
JJSEN
Case Management
Crossover Youth Practice Model
Funding
Intake
Juvenile Detention Alternatives Initiative (JDAI)
Juvenile Justice Home-Based Initiative
Out-of-Home Placement
Pre-Adjudication & Investigation
RISE
Reentry
2026 Artwork Contest
Rehabilitative Services
Resources
Service Definitions - Adult
Service Definitions - Juvenile
Services
Standardized Model
Interstate Compact | Interdistrict Transfer
Registered Service Providers
Registered Service Providers by District
Chief Probation Officers
Probation Policy Forms
District Map
Directories
Supreme Court Justices
Court of Appeals Judges
District Court Judges
District Court Contacts
County Court Judges
County Court Contacts
Separate Juvenile Court Judges
Separate Juvenile Court Contacts
Workers&#039; Compensation Court Judges
Chief Probation Officers
Interpreters
Media Coordinators
Mediators
Problem-Solving Court
Court Reporting Personnel
District Map
District 1
District 2
District 3
District 4
District 5
District 6
District 7
District 8
District 9
District 10
District 11
District 12
E-Services
Appellate Courts Online Library
Case Information
Court Calendar Search
eFiling
ePayments
Forms
Self-Help
Legal Resources & Information
Glossary
Appeals
Appealing or Setting Aside A County Court Civil or Small Claims Judgment
Appealing to Supreme Court|Court of Appeals
Appealing a Workers&#039; Compensation Decision to the Court of Appeals
Handgun Certificate Denial or Revocation Appeal
Clean Slate - Criminal Record Rehabilitation
Eligibility Questionnaire
Adult Record Sealing
Juvenile Record Sealing
Set-Aside of a Criminal Conviction
Pardons
Court Records
Criminal History Report
Obtaining a Copy of Your Court Record That Has Been Sealed
Request to Open Adoption Records for Adoption Decree or Medical Records
Online Court Case Search
Records That Are No Longer Available
Request for a Typed Transcript of a Trial or Proceeding
County Court
District Court
Criminal
Additional Information: Felony Cases in Nebraska
Additional Information: Misdemeanor Cases in Nebraska
Estates
Additional Information: Estates
Affidavit for Transfer of Personal Property without Probate
Affidavit for Transfer of Real Property without Probate
Claims Against Estate
Deposit of Will
Title Transfer for the Deceased&#039;s Motor Vehicle
Families & Children
Simple Divorce - No Children
Simple Divorce - With Children
Child Support
Child Support Termination
Emancipation
Enforcement of Alimony or Property Settlement Orders
Enforcement of Child Support Orders
Enforcement of Visitation Orders
Establishment of Paternity
Modification of Child Support
Modification of Custody or Parenting Plan
Temporary Delegation of Parental Powers
Sibling Intervention
Financial
Garnishments
Power of Attorney
Fines & Court Costs
Requests for Payment Alternatives
Where the Money Goes
General Court Forms
Filing a Motion for Continuance of Court Hearing
Motion to Dismiss
Waiver and Plea of Guilty
Guardians & Conservators
Limited Scope Representation
For People Wanting Limited Legal Assistance
For Attorneys
Medical
Power of Attorney - Medical
Waiver of Parental Consent for Abortion for Minors
Name Change
Adult Name Change
Child Name Change
Protection Order Information
Which Protection Order Do You Choose?
Domestic Abuse Protection Order
Harassment Protection Order
Sexual Assault Protection Order
If You Have Been Served with a Protection Order
Frequently Asked Questions
Renter|Landlord
Landlord
Renter|Tenant
Small Claims
Filing a Small Claims Case in Nebraska
Appealing or Setting Aside A Small Claims Judgment
Collecting Your Money After A Judgment & Information For Judgment Debtor
Small Claims Glossary
Traffic
Additional Information: Traffic Cases in Nebraska
Workers&#039; Compensation Court
Contact
facebook
Twitter X
Linkedin