VL-017 08/2025 ISL Page 1
Application for Non-Driver ID
Department of Motor Vehicles
Agency of Transportation
dmv.vermont.gov
Complete both pages or form will be returned
I am Applying for a
(check one)  Real ID Compliant ID  Non-Real Compliant ID (Privilege Card)  Enhanced ID (EDL)
(check one)  Original Issue  Renewal  Replacement (Lost or Stolen)  Address or Name Change
Vermont Identification Information - Do you now have, or did you ever have a Vermont:
Driver License?  Yes  No
Learner Permit?  Yes  No
Non-Driver ID Card?  Yes  No
If “Yes”, enter the number as it appears
on the Vermont License, Learner
Permit, or Non-Driver ID card
VERMONT LICENSE, PERMIT, or NON DRIVER ID CARD NUMBER
LAST NAME
Do you have a driver license that is valid or that expired within the past
year, issued by another US State, the District of Columbia or a
Canadian Province?  Yes  NoFIRST NAME
If “Yes”, where was it issued? ________________________________
MIDDLE NAME Date of Expiration: License Type: License Number:
Address Where You Get Your Mail (mailing address) - Include Street Number and Name (If PO or Private Box, also fill in “Address Where You Live” below)
City or Town State Zip Code
Address of Residence (physical address) – This address will be printed on your license
City or Town State Zip Code
Social Security Number*: Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY): Place of Birth (City, State & Country):
*The disclosure of your social security or federal identification number is mandatory, is solicited by the authority granted by 42 U.S.C. § §405(c)(2)(C) and/or 666(a)(13) and
will be used by the Department of Motor Vehicles in the administration of motor vehicle, tax and child support laws, to identify individuals affected by such laws.
If you are (1) applying for a Privilege Card; (2) not registering to vote; and (3) presenting a letter of ineligibility for a Social Security Number, you may leave this field blank.
Gender: Eye Color: Height: Weight:
 Male  Female  Other
Complete next page
DMV USE ONLY
PID:
 Name CHG (231)
 DOB CHG (231)
 MISC CHG (231)
POB SEX EYE HT WGT
 Mail Address (232)
 SS# CHG (232)
 Physical ADD (233)
ADD CHG DEL
 220 Create
 222
 228
 DOC LOC
 NNL Photo
 Temp Issued
 SSI/SSD
 VISA
USCIS Doc______
Voter Registration
 Yes  No
Issue Date (VT): City & State (OOS) Renewal (27)
Original (27)
Expire Date (VT): Rater # Duplicate (29)
Corrected (29)
EDL (33)
TOTAL FEES:
VL-017 08/2025 ISL Page 2
Questions/Certifications
1) Are you a veteran of the US Military and want “VETERAN” printed on your License? If so, you must fill out the
Vermont Certificate of Veteran Status (DMV Form VG-168) unless you have previously submitted it.  Yes  No
2) Do you wish to be registered as an organ & tissue donor?  Yes  No
3) Do you certify that you are a Vermont Resident?  Yes  No
Real ID, EDL & Voter Registration You may skip this question if applying for a Privilege Card and are not registering to vote.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?  Yes  No If you are NOT a U.S, Citizen, do you have proof of legal presence?  N/A  Yes  No
Name, Address or Other Changes If address change required for voter registration, complete voter registration section below.
Has your name changed?
 Yes  No
Has your mailing address changed?
 Yes  No
Has the physical address changed?
 Yes  No
Other Change(s):
 Yes  No
If applicable, list all former names exactly as they appeared on your previous licenses.
Voter Registration You will be registered to vote unless you decline to register below. By signing and submitting this application, you are authorizing the
Department of Motor Vehicles to transmit this application to the Secretary of State for voter registration purposes. YOU MAY DECLINE TO REGISTER. Both the
office through which you submit this application and your decision of whether or not to register will remain confidential and will be used for voter registration purposes
only. In order to be registered to vote, you must:
1) be a U.S. citizen;
2) be a resident of Vermont;
3) have taken the voter’s oath; and
4) 18 years of age or older.
Any person meeting the requirements of 1 - 3 who will be 18 years of age on or before the date of a general election may register and vote in the primary election
immediately preceding that general election. Failure to decline to register is an attestation that you meet the requirements to vote.
If you are voting for the first time in Vermont you must take the VOTER’S OATH:
You solemnly swear (or affirm) that whenever you give your vote or suffrage, touching any matter that concerns the State of Vermont, you will do it so as in your
conscience you shall judge will most conduce to the best good of the same, as established by the Constitution without fear or favor of any person.
By signing below you can attest for yourself that you have taken the Oath. You can also have anyone over 18 attest that you have taken the oath.
If your address has changed, list the address where you were last registered to vote. (Do not complete unless currently registered to vote at a previous address):
Street Address City/Town County State
 Do not register me to vote or update my voter registration. I decline to register to vote, or I do not meet all of the eligibility requirements.
I hereby affirm, under penalty of perjury of the laws of the State of Vermont,
that the information on this form is true and correct. This declaration made
under penalties of 23 V.S.A. § 202 & § 4110. Submission of a false voter
registration application is subject to the penalties of perjury as provided in
17 V.S.A. § 2011, 13 V.S.A. § 290, and 52 U.S.C. § 20511.
Signature of Applicant Date Signed
X
Signature of Parent or Guardian (if the applicant is under 18). I hereby
consent to the issuance of the Nondriver ID:  Parent  Legal Guardian
Signature of Parent or Guardian Date Signed
Phone Number: Email Address:
VL-017 08/2025 ISL Page 3
Available ID types:
• Real ID: A Real ID card meets Federal standards for issuance. Real ID is required to fly on commercial aircraft and access certain federally controlled
facilities (federal courts, federal buildings, military bases).
• Privilege Card (DPC): A DPC is marked “Not for Federal Identification” and is NOT Real ID compliant. Issuance of the DPC does not require proof of
legal presence or US citizenship.
• Enhanced (EDL): An EDL is a Real ID compliant card with the benefit of being a convenient border crossing document for U.S. citizens returning home
from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, or Bermuda by land or sea. Must be a Vermont resident AND U.S. Citizen.
NOTE: All original-issue (first-time) ID Cards must be applied for in person at a DMV office. The application must bear the applicant's personal signature in
ink. If the applicant is under age 18, the written consent of the applicant's parent, legal guardian, or other person standing in loco parentis will be required.
REQUIRED DOCUMENTS
New applicants and customers making changes to name, date of birth, place of birth, or SSN must present the required documents from each of these four
categories. These documents are not required for renewals with no changes to name, DOB, POB, or SSN.
1. Identity and date of birth - Must provide one of the following:
• Valid, unexpired passport,
• Certified record of the applicant's birth, marriage, adoption, or
divorce, including a translation if necessary
• Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) issued by the U.S.
Department of State (Form FS-240, DS-1350 or FS-545)
• Valid consular identification document issued by the
government of Mexico, Guatemala (or any other government
with comparable security standards and protocols, as
determined by the Commissioner)
• Valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551)
• Certificate of Naturalization issued by DHS (Form N-550 or
Form N-570)
• Certificate of Citizenship (Form N-560 or Form N-561) issued
by DHS
• Real ID Driver’s License or Identification Card issued in
compliance with the standards established by 6 CFR part 37.
2. Social Security Information - You must present your Social Security card or a letter from the Social Security Administration indicating your ineligibility
to receive a Social Security number (SSN).
If your Social Security card is not available, one of the following forms may be used in its place: W-2 form, SSA-1099 form, pay stub showing name and
SSN (minimum of last four digits) (Your name must verify with Social Security Administration). If there have been multiple changes to your name, you
must provide documentation to prove the continuity of the names. For example marriage or civil union certificate (a certified copy issued by town/city),
marriage or civil union dissolution, or probate court name change document.)
3. Vermont residency and current residential address - You must present two documents that include your name and current Vermont residential address
that demonstrate residency in the state of Vermont. Examples include:
• Utility bill (must list service address)
• Property tax bill with a physical location
• Signed lease agreement
• Homeowners/renters insurance (policy/proof of claim)
• Educational institution transcript/report card/enrollment
confirmation
• Federal tax document (W-2, 1099)
• State tax document (IN-111)
• Medical health receipt or bill (with current name and Vermont
street address including city/town)(No P.O. Boxes)
• Piece of mail with current name and Vermont street address
including city/town (no P.O. Boxes)(only use for one document
for REAL ID)
4. Lawful status in the United States (Only required for Real ID & EDL) - In most cases, the documents required for proof of identity and date of birth
will also establish lawful status in the United States. Foreign nationals must provide a passport and visa, alien registration receipt card (green card), or
other proof of legal presence for inspection and copying.
ENHANCED (EDL)
In addition to the above documents, an EDL requires proof of US Citizenship.
• Original certified birth certificate issued by a government unit in the
U.S. or U.S. territory.
• Valid, unexpired U.S. passport or passport card.
• Certificate of Citizenship (N-560 or N-561). Certificate of
Naturalization (N-550, N-570 or N-578).
• Consular Report of Birth Abroad issued by the U.S. Department of
State (FS-240, DS-1350 or FS-545).
FEES
• Non-Driver ID, New/Renew - $29.00
• Non-Driver ID, Replacement - $24.00
• Non-Driver ID, SSI Reduced Fee - $10.00
• Enhanced Fee – Additional $36.00
SSI/SSD Reduced Fees (Non-Driver ID only): An individual who is currently on Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
or Social Security Disability (SSD) is eligible for a reduced fee for a Non-Driver ID. Proof of SSI or SSD is required at
the time of the service. This can be done by submitting a benefit verification letter to this Department. A copy of the
benefit verification letter can be obtained by contacting Social Security by phone, mail or in person.
REGISTER TO VOTE
If you are eligible, today you will be registered to vote unless you decline. You are eligible to vote in the town or city where you physically reside if as of Election Day, you:
• are a United States citizen
• are a resident of Vermont
• are 18 years old
• take Voter’s Oath.
You are a “resident” under Vermont law if you are domiciled in the town as evidenced by intent to maintain a principal dwelling place in the town indefinitely and to return there if
temporarily absent, coupled with an act or acts consistent with that intent.
You only need to take the Voter’s Oath once. If you were previously registered to vote in Vermont you have already taken the Voter’s Oath. You can attest that you have taken the
voter's oath for yourself or a DMV employee can administer the Voter’s Oath to you.
You are not officially registered to vote until your Town or City Clerk reviews your application to be sure that you meet all eligibility requirements. The Clerk will notify you in
writing if your application is approved and notify you of the location of your polling place. If your application is denied, the Clerk will notify you explaining why you are not eligible
and also explain how you can file an appeal to the Board of Civil Authority in your Town or City. If you have questions, you may call the Office of the Secretary of State at
802.828.2363 or visit sos.vermont.gov/elections/voters/.