We Offer
The Community Center facilitates and hosts community groups, events, & meetings focused on the LGBTQIA+ community. Check out our Events Calendar and Facebook events page for more details.
Social and Support Groups
A Space for Aces : A safe place for individuals who are or might be on the ACE/ARO spectrums to build community, socialize, learn, and support one another. No judgment. All confidential. Friends and allies welcome. 2nd Wednesday of the month from 6-7pm
PolyQ : An all inclusive, LGBTQIA+ focused program of The Community Center. We aim to provide a social and support network for people that intersect queer communities and non-monogamous relationships on all levels. Learn more .
Tri-States Transgender : The Tri-States Transgender group&#8217;s mission is to help advance the needs of the transgender community through education, support, and advocacy. 1st and 3rd Saturday of the month from 7-9pm
Youth Alliance for Diversity : YAD (Youth Alliance for Diversity) provides a safe environment that fosters education, socialization, and a sense of unity within the community. YAD is open to all LGBTQIA+ and allies aged 14-20. Every Sunday from 4-6pm
Recurring Events
LEGO Lovers Lounge : Come build friendships along with LEGO! Bring your own LEGO or use some of ours to build in a fun, social setting. All ages and experience levels welcome. 1st Monday of the month from 7-9pm
Imperial Sovereign Gem Court of Idaho General Meeting : The Imperial Sovereign Gem Court of Idaho is a social and charitable organization that is open to all LGBTQIA+ folks! All are welcome to join their general meeting to come build community, have fun, and plan events. Learn more about The Gem Court on their website . 1st Wednesday of the month from 7-8pm
NeuroQueer Collective : A meetup group for Neurodivergent and/or Queer adults to get together and talk while coloring, drawing, or working on a craft of their choosing. Learn more about NeuroQueer Collective on their Facebook page . 1st Saturday of the month from 11am-2pm
LGBTQIA+ Book Club : Best for attendees 16+. Meeting details can be found on the LGBTQ Book Club Facebook page . 2nd Monday of the month, alternating in-person and virtual. Check out the 2026 TCC Book Club Reading List .
BUNCO : Join us to play Bunco, a dice game. All experience levels are welcome. Free to play and prizes will be awarded. Bring your three lucky dice if you’d like, or borrow some from TCC. Pizza and refreshments provided. 2nd Saturday of the month from 5-7:30pm
Karaoke Night : Rainbow Circle and The Community Center host a karaoke night. Join us to sing, dance and enjoy the performers. 3rd Thursday of the month from 7-10pm
Dungeons & Dragons : A morning of dice-rolling, Dungeons & Dragons fun. All new and experienced players are welcome. 4th Saturday of the month from 10am-2pm
Underground Cinema Night with Art Haus Forest : Art Haus Forest is a collective of queer art house film enthusiasts looking to elevate the spotlight on underground cinema. 4th Saturday of the month from 6-9pm
Game Night : Come down to The Community Center for a night of board games! We have a nice selection of board and card games. Meeting details can be found on The Community Center&#8217;s Facebook Events page. Last Friday of the month from 5-9pm
Crafty Queers : Monthly LGBTQIA+ art times! Bring your own project (painting, crochet, drawing, etc. &#8211; whatever you want to work on) or craft a featured item. Allies are welcome.
2nd Saturday of the month from 12-2pm &#8211; Stitch n Sip &#8211; Bring any fiber art project you&#8217;re working on to knit, crochet, etc. alongside good company. Snacks, beverages, and crochet/knit supplies provided.
3rd Saturday of the month from 1-4pm &#8211; Art & Craft Time &#8211; Bring your own or use the supplies at TCC. A featured art is usually also offered.
If you have a group interested in using the space for a one-time or ongoing function, please reach out to us with details at info@tccidaho.org .