Get Legal Help
The SC Bar does not take on clients as an agency, but may be able to connect you with an attorney or other legal aid provider who may be suited to assist you.
Need Legal Help?
lawyer Referral Service (LRS)
Get connected with a lawyer in your area to help you with a legal issue. You may call (803) 799-7100 for a referral from 9 a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Monday - Friday. The online referral service is also available 24/7.
LRS offers referrals by the type of law and by the area or location in which you need a lawyer. Each participating lawyer agrees to charge no more than $50 for a 30-minute consultation . If the consultation extends past the 30 minutes or you hire the lawyer to represent you, the lawyer will charge you his or her normal fees. The lawyers do not take pro bono cases.
Find a Lawyer Online
Encuentra un abogado en l&#xED;nea
Can't afford Legal help?
If you cannot afford to hire a lawyer, you may qualify for certain programs that may be able to assist you. South Carolina Legal Services provides an online intake form to determine your eligibility, legal information and resources to help you in finding the legal assistance you need. Enter your personal information and few facts about your issue to see if you are eligible for legal aid.
Apply for Legal Help
SC Free Legal Answers
Submit an inquiry to a volunteer lawyer for free through the Free Legal Answers program with the American Bar Association. This is a virtual legal advice clinic in which qualifying users are able to post civil legal questions.
Free Legal Answers
Legal Resource Finder
Ensuring equal access to civil legal assistance for all South Carolinians.
The South Carolina Access to Justice Commission is comprised of judges, lawyers, legislators, court employees and community leaders from across the state who meet regularly to identify barriers to access to justice in South Carolina and explore possible solutions.
If you need assistance in locating legal help, use the Access to Justice interactive Legal Resource Finder, which will help identify legal aid organizations you might be eligible for and self-help resources available to you.
Find Legal Resources
Free Forms and Publications
The South Carolina Bar offers a series of educational brochures and forms on a variety of topics.
Your Guide to Magistrate&#x27;s Court
This booklet contains explains explains what disputes are appropriate for resolution through Magistrate's Court and includes procedures and forms to help guide you through your case.
Your Guide to Magistrate&#x27;s Court
Resources for Seniors
S.C. Senior Citizens Handbook
My Life My Choices Website
Healthcare Power of Attorney
Listed below are links to health care power of attorney forms that are provided by statute. While it is not required, you are encouraged to consult an attorney for assistance in executing these documents and answering questions specific to your needs.
Health Care Power of Attorney
Oder Legal Para Atenci&#xF3;n M&#xE9;dica
Children&#x27;s Issues
Kids&#x27; Law (provided by the USC School of Law Children&#x27;s Law Center)
Home Birth Guide
Self-Represented Divorce
The S.C. Supreme Court Access to Justice Commission, along with S.C. Legal Services, the South Carolina Bar and S.C. Court Administration, developed instructions and forms which have been compiled in a Self-Represented Litigant Simple Divorce Packet for plaintiffs and defendants. There is also an online option ( https://www.lawhelp.org/sc/resource/self-help-divorce-forms ) that will help complete your forms if you have no children and no property to divide. The purpose of these documents is to provide instructions and forms for people who choose to forego hiring an attorney but would like to file a divorce based on one-year continuous separation. These forms have been approved the S.C. Supreme Court.
We use cookies to provide and improve our services. By using our site, you consent to cookies.
Accept
Privacy Policy