Skip to Main Content
Need help understanding your rights as an LGBTQ+ person or someone living with HIV? Visit our virtual Help Desk.
Ray v. McCloud
Status:
Open
Court:
United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio
Issues:
Trans Rights
Clients:
Stacie Ray
Basil Argento
Jane Doe
Ashley Breda
Attorneys:
Lambda Legal
Kara Ingelhart, Law Fellow
Peter Renn, Senior Attorney
ACLU
Gabriel Arkles, John Knight
ACLU of Ohio
Freda Levenson, Susan Becker, Elizabeth Bonham
Thompson Hine LLP
David J. Carey
News + Blogs
Press Release
May 26, 2021
Lambda Legal and ACLU of Ohio Issue Materials to Educate Public on Ohio Department of Health’s New Procedures for Trans Ohioans to Correct Birth Certificates Following Court Order
Lambda Legal, the American Civil Liberties Union of Ohio and the American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit challenging Ohio’s refusal to correct the gender marker on birth certificates for transgender individuals, for any reason, at any time. Ohio is one of the last two states (the other being Tennessee) that have yet to change this extremely regressive and outdated policy.
“This policy is not only archaic and out-of-step with the rest of America but also dangerous. Forcing transgender Ohioans to go through life with inaccurate birth certificates, a basic form of identification, unnecessarily exposes them to discrimination, harassment, and violence. It also denies them their very identity,” Lambda Legal Law Fellow Kara Ingelhart said. “In fact, government officials in Ohio know this, given that they allow transgender people to change the gender on their drivers’ licenses and state identification cards.”
People born in Ohio are able to correct the gender marker on other legal documents such as their driver’s license, state identification, U.S. Passport, and social security information. But in refusing to allow transgender people to change their birth certificates, the state of Ohio is “forcing transgender people to ‘out’ themselves every time they need to present the document, which exposes them to a range of unfair and discriminatory treatment, from denial of employment, to verbal harassment, to physical violence,” noted Gabriel Arkles, senior staff attorney with the ACLU LGBT and HIV Project.
History
March 29, 2018: Lambda Legal and the ACLU file lawsuit.
September 12, 2019: U.S. District Court denies Ohio's motion to dismiss lawsuit. Transgender Ohioans will get their day in court.
Complaints Complaint (03/29/2018)
Decisions Opinion and Order (12/16/2020)
Opinion and Order (09/12/2019)
Other Correcting the Gender Marker on an Ohio Birth Certificate FAQ (05/26/2021)
Plaintiffs&#039; Opposition To Defendants&#039; Motion To Dismiss (07/27/2018)
Lambda Legal can’t do this work without your support.
Your gift today keeps Lambda Legal&#039;s lawyers in courtrooms across the country fighting to strike down these morally wrong and legally unconstitutional laws, and we need your support now more than ever.
This link leads off site $25
This link leads off site $50
This link leads off site $125
This link leads off site $500
This link leads off site Other
Thank you for your submission
Thank you for playing a leading role in an organization whose unstoppable future is inseparable from the movement for LGBTQ+ rights and everyone living with HIV!
A member of our team will be in touch with you shortly.
Go back to form page
Close