P A G E 1 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
Birth Record Amendment Packet
Any corrections or additions to a birth record require an amendment, when the changes happen after a
birth certificate has been purchased OR after the child’s first birthday, whichever comes first. Fill out the
form below and provide supporting documents to request an amendment to a Minnesota birth record.
You may request amendments for the following information on the birth record:
Child’s/subject’s information
▪ First, middle, last name and name suffix
(amending a full name requires court order)
▪ Date of birth
▪ Time of birth
▪ Plurality (i.e., single birth, twin birth, triplet)
▪ Sex
▪ Place of birth
Parent’s information
▪ Names (first, middle, last, or name suffix –
changing entire name requires court order)
▪ Names at birth (name before first marriage)
▪ Date of birth
▪ Place of birth
Format changes, such as requests for upper case/lower case letters are not valid amendment requests.
Minnesota birth records print in all capital letters as a best practice set by U.S. vital records standards
organizations.
List each item you want to amend on a separate line as shown below. In the right column, print how you
want the item to show on the new certificate. The third page of the application has space for additional
items to amend.
Supporting documents
Amendments require supporting documentation.
You must send at least one supporting document to add missing information to a birth record.
You must send in at least two supporting documents to change information on a birth record.
Each document must:
1. Show the item you want to add or change exactly as you want it to appear on the new birth
certificate, AND
B I R T H R E C O R D S A M E N D M E N T P A C K E T
P A G E 2 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
2. Show at least two items that match what is on the birth certificate already that you are not asking to
have changed.
Documents need to show at least two items from this list:
• subject’s last name
• subject’s date of birth
• subject’s place of birth
• a parent’s name
• a parent’s date of birth
• a parent’s place of birth
Documents must be:
Legible
We can make out the letters and words; the
document is sharp – not blurred or smeared.
Unmodified
Documents cannot have erasures or text crossed
out. The text must not be covered by correction
tape, stickers, or blackouts.
Original
You must provide original documents, not copies
or digital images. For instance, we need a real
passport or certificate of naturalization, not a
photocopy. We return all original documents to
you when we complete the amendment
In English
All documents must be in English or translated
into English. Any translation must be performed
by a qualified translator who then signs the
translation in front of a notary public.
B I R T H R E C O R D S A M E N D M E N T P A C K E T
P A G E 3 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
Certified or Authenticated
Your documents must be either certified or authenticated. Certified documents — such as birth,
death, and marriage certificates; passports; military discharge forms; and court orders — may be
printed on special paper or have stamps or seals on them. Other documents, such as school, medical,
or social services records, must be authenticated. That means an employee from the place giving you
the copy declares in writing that the document is a true and exact copy of the record on file. At
minimum, the document must list the name and address of the organization, and an employee of the
organization must sign and date it.
Supporting document dates
Supporting documents for birth record amendments must be established at specific times based on the
age of the subject:
• Subject is younger than seven years old: The document(s) must have been established in the
subject’s first year of life OR at least one year before you signed the amendment request form.
• Subject is seven or more years old: The document(s) must have been established before the
subject’s third birthday OR at least seven years before the date you signed the amendment
request form.
The date a document was established is the date it was first created. A document may have several dates
on it, but the date it was established is the important one. For medical, social services, or school records,
we need to see the date when the record subject began attending or receiving services from the
organization. On marriage, birth, and baptism certificates, we look for the date the event took place. For
a passport, the relevant date is when the passport was first issued. (If the first passport you were issued
has expired, you may need to submit it in addition to your current, unexpired passport.)
Acceptable supporting documents
The Office of Vital Records accepts the document listed below and may determine other documents are
acceptable. Documents must meet all the requirements above and support the requested amendment.
▪ Authenticated U.S. K-12 school record, or official college transcript
▪ Authenticated hospital, clinic, or social services record
▪ Valid (unexpired) passport – NOT a notarized photocopy
▪ Original or certified copy of U.S. military discharge papers (such as a DD214 form)
B I R T H R E C O R D S A M E N D M E N T P A C K E T
P A G E 4 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
▪ Certified (government issued) copy of a marriage certificate
▪ Certified court orders from a U.S. court that:
▪ Show the subject’s name and date of birth as they currently appear on the birth record
▪ Clearly specify which items to amend on the birth record (if amending information other the
subject’s name)
▪ Certified copy of a birth certificate of a child
▪ Certified copy of a birth certificate of a parent or sibling (only to amend parent information)
▪ U.S. baptism certificate or other church record and the church’s phone number (to verify record)
▪ Original or certified copy of a Certificate of Naturalization AND certified Petition for Name Change
▪ Official tribal enrollment record
▪ Numident record from the U.S. Social Security Administration
Documents NOT accepted
 Hospital souvenir birth certificate
 Driver’s license
 State, employee, or other id card or permit
 Social security card or statement
 Application of any kind
 Insurance card or policy
 Paycheck stub
 Tax return
 Statement or bill
 Newspaper article
Gender
To change the subject’s sex on a birth record, the requester must send our office either of the following:
▪ An original letter from and signed by a licensed physician that:
▪ References the subject’s name and date of birth on the current birth record and,
▪ Certifies that the subject has had “appropriate clinical” treatment for gender transition.
OR
▪ A certified copy of a court order that specifically directs amendment of the subject's sex on the
birth record.
Changing parent names on record
A court order is required to change the full name of a parent on a subject’s birth record. The court order
must:
▪ Spell out the parent’s name(s) before and after the name change, and
▪ Direct the Office of Vital Records to change the parents’ names on the child’s birth record.
A court order to change the parents’ names on multiple birth records must list each child’s name.
Please note
▪ Fees are not refundable.
▪ Birth record amendment requests can only be fulfilled by the Office of Vital Records (Minnesota
Department of Health); they are not available through county vital records offices.
B I R T H R E C O R D S A M E N D M E N T P A C K E T
P A G E 5 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
▪ We will return your application along with your supporting documents if the application is not filled
out completely, your payment is insufficient, or supporting documents are not adequate for the
request.
▪ Pay one $21 express delivery fee if you asked for changes to multiple birth records. Documents must all
go to the same address.
▪ Unresolved requests will be closed 12 months after we receive them. Once a request is closed,
customers must submit a new request and pay the fee again to update the record and/or receive
the vital records.
▪ Be sure to sign the application in front of a notary public.
▪ The fee for reviewing and processing the amendment is non-refundable and does not include the
cost of a new birth certificate. Do not send cash as payment.
▪ Include a prepaid express delivery envelope with your application if your supporting documents or
new certificates are going to an address outside the U.S.
▪ Ensure that your supporting documents meet all the requirements listed above. We will return your
original documents when we finish processing your request.
▪ Find information on getting a Minnesota court order at Minnesota Judicial Branch
(https://mncourts.gov/).
Call 651-201-5970 or email health.vitalrecords@state.mn.us with questions.
P A G E 6 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
Birth Record Amendment Request
Use this form to request additions or changes to information on a Minnesota birth record. You must also provide
documents that support the requested amendments (see instructions).
It’s illegal to give false information to amend a vital record, and it may subject you to fines, jail time, or both.
What does the birth record show now?
Child/Subject Child/Subject first name Child/Subject middle name Child/Subject last name
Date of birth (MM/DD/YYYY) Sex Minnesota city of birth Minnesota county of birth
Parents First name of parent one Middle name of parent one Last name of parent one Last name before 1st marriage
First name of parent two Middle name of parent two Last name of parent two Last name before 1st marriage
List each item to amend separately.
See the instruction sheet.
How should information show on the new certificate?
See the instruction sheet.
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
To amend additional items, see the last page of the form.
Requester Information – What is your relationship to the subject of the birth record?
By law, only the birth record subject, their parent, or their legal guardian or representative may request amendments.
☐ I am the subject of the record and 18 or older (if you have a court order, you - not your parent - must be requester)
☐ I am a parent listed on the record
☐ I am the legal guardian or legal representative of the subject. You must send a certified copy of the U.S. court order
with the application. The court order must name you as the legal guardian or list you as the legal representative.
Requester full name Date of birth (MM/DD/YYYY)
Street address (Express delivery services won’t deliver to PO boxes or APO addresses.) Apt/Unit #
City State Zip code Daytime Phone (10-digit) Email
REQUIRED – Sign this form in front of a notary public
I certify that the information provided on this application is correct and complete to the best of my knowledge.
Requester signature
Notary Signed or attested before me on the day of , 20
Notary Stamp/Seal
Printed name of notary public
Notary public signature My commission expires
B I R T H R E C O R D A M E N D M E N T R E Q U E S T
P A G E 7 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
Requester Name:
Fees and records request Fee
Amendment request processing $40 $40
First amended birth certificate $26
Additional birth certificates # of extra copies $19 each
Processing Fee
Standard — request processed in the order received $0
Faster — request handled ahead of standard requests (doesn’t include express delivery) $20
Shipping Fee
Regular first-class mail $0
Express delivery (Check here ☐ to require a signature.) $21
 The Office of Vital Records and the express delivery service are not responsible for deliveries that do not require a
signature. Express delivery services will not deliver to PO boxes or APO addresses.
 For delivery outside the United States, you must supply a prepaid express delivery envelope with your application.
Total due Fees are due with the application and are non-refundable.
Payment method
☐ Credit card
MasterCard/VISA/Discover
Cardholder name Valid thru
(MM/YY)
Card number 3-digit
code
☐ Check Check # Make check or money order payable to Minnesota
Department of Health. DO NOT SEND CASH. Checks
returned for non-payment will result in a $30 charge to
you. You could also face civil penalties.☐ Money order Money order#
Send your application and payment to: Incomplete requests
Minnesota Department of Health
Office of Vital Records
Mail: PO Box 64499, St. Paul, MN 55164-0499
Courier/express delivery: 625 Robert St. N, St. Paul, MN 55155
(no vital-records counter service at this location)
The Office of Vital Records returns applications that
are incomplete, not signed in front of a notary public,
or not paid in full at the time of application.
Unresolved requests will be closed 12 months after we
receive them. Once a request is closed, customers
must submit a new request and pay the fee again to
update the record and/or receive the vital records.
If you have questions, contact the Office of Vital Records at health.vitalrecords@state.mn.us or 651-201-5970.
B I R T H R E C O R D A M E N D M E N T R E Q U E S T
P A G E 8 O F 8 O F F I C E O F V I T A L R E C O R D S 0 7 / 2 0 2 5
Requester Name:
Use this page ONLY if you filled all the rows on the first page of the application.
List each item to amend separately
See the instruction sheet.
How should information show on the new certificate?
See the instruction sheet.
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as
Item to amend Show on new certificate as