XS
SM
MD
LG
Missouri Department of Revenue
Menu
Toolbar Links
RSS News Feed
Email us
Watch Videos on Vimeo
Watch Videos on Youtube
Follow us on Instagram
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Quick Navigation
Skip to Main Content
MO.gov
Governor Kehoe
Find an Agency
Online Services
Quick Navigation
Skip to Main Content
MO.gov
Governor Kehoe
Find an Agency
Online Services
Toolbar Links
RSS News Feed
Email us
Watch Videos on Vimeo
Watch Videos on Youtube
Follow us on Instagram
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Documents for Driver License, Nondriver ID, and Instruction Permit
Documents Required to Apply for or Renew a Missouri Driver License, Nondriver ID, or Instruction Permit
Exemption for Applicants Age 65 or Older
Exemption for Applicants With a 15-year Missouri Driving History
If You Have a Name Change
Special Considerations for Exceptional Circumstances
How to Obtain Required Documents
Documents Required to Obtain a Missouri Driver License, Nondriver ID, or Instruction Permit
REAL ID-compliant
Still not sure if you need a REAL ID? Check out this resource for additional guidance .
Non REAL ID-compliant
Commercial Driver License and Learner's Permit (REAL ID-compliant and Non REAL ID-compliant)
Utilize the Department's interactive guide to ensure you have the documents required to apply for your REAL ID.
The applicant must present one or more of the documents in each of the following categories. Additional documents may be required.
IDENTITY
LAWFUL STATUS
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
MISSOURI RESIDENCY
The applicant will also be required to present documents to verify the following information, if applicable:
ALTERNATE MAILING ADDRESS
NAME CHANGE
Additional documents may be required to determine eligibility for special indicators, such as Veteran, Boater Safety, or Permanent Disability indicators, or to request a change to the gender or
date of birth.
IDENTITY AND LAWFUL STATUS DOCUMENTS
All documents presented must be valid and unexpired.
EXCEPTION: For a non REAL ID-compliant application, an expired Missouri or out-of-state license, identification card, or instruction permit may be accepted for identity, if within six months (184
days) of expiration.
A U.S. birth certificate must be an original certified document with an embossed, stamped, or raised seal issued by a vital records agency (hospital-issued birth certificates and birth registration cards or birth
transcripts are not accepted). An original certified U.S. birth certificate marked as a "delayed" or "amended" filing, issued by the state vital records agency, is acceptable.
EXCEPTION: For a non REAL ID-compliant application, a photocopy of a certified U.S birth certificate (issued by a vital records agency) accompanied
by a U.S. Military Identification Card or U.S. Military Discharge Papers is acceptable.
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER (ALL Applicants)
Acceptable documents must include name and Social Security number
Social Security card must be signed if the applicant is 18 years of age or older
Social Security card cannot be laminated
If a Social Security number has not been assigned, the applicant must present a letter from the Social Security Administration (SSA) regarding the status of the applicant's Social Security number.
A Social Security number may be provided verbally by current Missouri license or permit holders with a previously verified Social Security number on file.
MISSOURI RESIDENTIAL ADDRESS (ALL Applicants)
All applicants show residency with any recent document from the acceptable document list.
Acceptable documents must include the name and address.
Applicants for a non REAL ID-compliant card must submit one issued acceptable document to verify residency.
Applicants for a REAL ID-compliant driver license or nondriver license must submit two acceptable documents from two different sources to verify
residency.
Applicants for a non REAL ID-compliant or REAL ID-compliant document requesting to use an alternate mailing address, must
submit one acceptable document to verify the alternate mailing address.
Applicants for a REAL ID or non REAL ID Commercial Driver License (CDL) or a Commercial Learner's Permit (CLP) must submit two acceptable documents from two different sources to verify state of
domicile (residency).
NOTE: A Post Office Box is not acceptable as a residential address. Current addresses are important! Your license will be mailed to the
address provided.
Residential address is the location at which a person has been physically present and regards as home. A residential address is a person's true, fixed, principal, and permanent
home, to which a person intends to return and remain, even though currently residing elsewhere.
Exceptions
Safe at Home Address Confidentiality Program - Persons who are enrolled in the Safe at Home program may submit their program card to meet residence and mailing address verification requirements for a non REAL ID or REAL ID compliant instruction permit, driver license or nondriver identification card. For more information about the Safe at Home Program Address Confidentiality Program visit the Missouri Secretary of State website at https://www.sos.mo.gov/business/safeathome.
Certification of Homeless Status and Residency - A homeless service provider assisting an individual experiencing homelessness may be eligible to complete Form 5862 certifying the named individual’s status and that the individual resides within the boundaries of Missouri. The form completed by the applicant and the eligible homeless services provider, as defined on Form 5862, must complete the form in full and submit it to the local license when applying for a nondriver identification card. Form 5862 applies to an alternative for an address verification document and does not waive document requirements for identity, lawful status, SSN or name change when such are required.
Self-Certification of Same Address
If you are a current noncommercial permit, noncommercial driver's license or nondriver license identification cardholder applying for a renewal, duplicate, upgrade or downgrade and the address on your current printed document is the same, you may be eligible to self-certify and waive submission of physical address verification documents.
You may be eligible to self-certify your residence and mailing address remain the same if you are:
A current REAL ID-compliant cardholder with previously verified residence and mailing address documents scanned and stored on record; or
A current non REAL ID-compliant cardholder who opted to have their address verification and other supporting documents scanned as part of their prior transaction.
Exemption for Applicants Age 65 or Older
An applicant age 65 or older renewing a non REAL ID-compliant, non-commercial driver license, nondriver ID, or instruction permit is exempt from presenting documents for place
of birth. If your Missouri driver or nondriver license or instruction permit is expired more than 6 months (184 days), you do not qualify for this exemption. The exemption also does not pertain to
those obtaining a new permit/driver license, or nondriver ID, or a request for a REAL ID-compliant document.
Exemption for Applicants With a 15-year Missouri Driving History
If you are a Missourian who has held a driver license or nondriver ID for 15 years or more, you are eligible to obtain a special one-year non REAL ID-compliant, non-commercial
driver or nondriver ID. A one-year license may not be renewed, but does provide a full year for you to obtain the documents required to verify lawful status.
If You Have a Name Change
To change your name, you must take documents to verify identity, Social Security number, Missouri residency, and proof of your legal name change to a Missouri license office. You may then apply and
pay for a duplicate driver license with your new name. Since a new signature must be "captured", a new photo may be necessary as well. If your Missouri driver license is within 6 months (184 days)
of expiring, you are eligible to renew your driver license early, saving you another trip to the license office.
At the time of initial application or REAL ID-compliant card issuance, you will be required to present name change verification documents if your current full legal name is different than the name
provided on your identity or lawful status verification documents. More than one name change document may be required if you have had multiple name changes.
Acceptable documents to verify a name change include:
Certified Marriage License – Must be issued by: 1) the recorder of deeds in the county in which you were married; 2) the state office of vital statistics; or, 3) an equivalent agency in your
state or country of marriage. It must be an original certified document and have the stamp or raised seal of the issuing authority. A church, chapel, or similarly issued certificate is not
acceptable. Photocopies and faxes are not acceptable.
Certified Divorce Decree – Must contain your prior full legal name, your court-ordered legal name, and your date of birth and be stamped with the official court seal (date stamps and file stamps
are not the official court seal). Photocopies and faxes are not acceptable.
Certified Court Order – Must contain your prior full legal name, your court-ordered legal name, and your date of birth and be stamped with the official court seal (date stamps and file stamps
are not the official court seal).
Certified Adoption Papers – Must contain your full legal name, your court-ordered legal name, and your date of birth and be stamped with the official court seal (date stamps and file stamps are
not the official court seal).
Amended Birth Certificate – Must be an original certified copy issued by the vital records agency in your birth state. Must have the stamp or raised seal of
the issuing authority.
If you are applying for an initial REAL ID-compliant card at the time of completing your name change request, additional documents may be required. Click here for a complete list of documents required to obtain a REAL ID-compliant Missouri driver or nondriver
license or instruction permit . Use the Department's interactive guide to ensure you have the documents required to apply for your REAL ID-compliant card.
Special Considerations for Exceptional Circumstances
In exceptional circumstances, a U.S. citizen who wishes to obtain a new Missouri non REAL ID-compliant, non-commercial instruction permit, driver license, or nondriver ID, and is unable to
obtain a government-issued U.S. birth certificate, may provide the following:
A certified "No Record Statement" from the vital records agency in your state of birth ; and
If you were born in Missouri, a certified
"No Record Statement" may be obtained from the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services, Bureau of Vital Records (the same
agency that provides certified birth certificates). This verifies that there is no birth record on file; and
Two supporting documents. The supporting documents should list the applicant’s name, place of birth, date of birth, or age at the time the document was issued. Each document does
not need to have all of the preceding information but the department needs sufficient information to establish place and date of birth. Example: Military discharge papers stating that Mr.
John Brown was discharged on March 25, 1945 would not be sufficient since the document does not include Mr. Brown’s place of birth . Supporting documents include, but are not limited to:
Military records;
Your child's certified birth certificate (listing you as parent) issued by a vital records agency
(a hospital-issued birth certificate or birth registration card is not accepted);
Baptismal record;
An Insurance policy;
A Social Security Administration numident;
School records
Employment
records, and
Census Bureau record.
NOTE: All other requirements for verification of Social Security number and Missouri residential address still apply.
Submit the above documents to the Document Review Panel using one of the three methods listed below:
Fax: 573-526-4548;
Mail: Department of Revenue, PO Box 200, Jefferson City, MO 65105-0200; or
Email: dlbmail@dor.mo.gov
A response will be provided within two weeks of our receipt of the documents. If you have any questions, you may contact our staff by phone at 573-526-2407 or by email at dlbmail@dor.mo.gov .
How to Obtain Required Documents
Birth Certificate
If you were born in Missouri , you must contact the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services, Bureau
of Vital Records to obtain a certified copy of your birth certificate.
If you were born in a state other than Missouri , you must contact the appropriate vital records agency in your birth state to obtain a certified copy of your birth certificate.
Marriage License
If you were married in Missouri , you must contact the Recorder of Deeds in the county where your marriage license was issued to obtain a certified copy of your marriage license.
If you were married in a state other than Missouri , you must contact the appropriate office in the state in which you were
married to obtain a certified copy of your marriage license.
If you are a Missouri resident who recently married outside the United States , you must first present your non-U.S. marriage license to be recorded at the
Recorder of Deeds in the Missouri county where you live . You may then obtain a certified marriage license from that same office.
Divorce Decree
If your divorce was granted in Missouri , you must contact the Clerk of the Circuit Court where the divorce was
granted to obtain a certified copy of your divorce decree.
If your divorce was granted in a state other than Missouri , you must contact the appropriate office in the state in which you were divorced to obtain a certified copy of your divorce decree.
Still need help? You can also submit your driver licensing questions to our staff by email . Your email will be forwarded to the appropriate area for
reply. Some inquiries can be responded to more quickly than others depending on the issue and amount of time needed for research. Please make sure your computer will accept our email
response.