Skip to main content
Health Care Home
Transgender Health Program
Transgender Support Services & Resources
Request Information or Call 801-213-2195
Refer a Patient
Health Care Home
Transgender Health Program
Transgender Support Services & Resources
Request Information or Call 801-213-2195
Refer a Patient
Education, Patient Coordinators, & Gender Marker Documents
About Us
For Providers
Insurance Information & Self-Pay
Support Services & Resources
Community Engagement
Our team is prepared to help you through every step of your health care journey. Our patient coordinators can help with the following:
Answer questions about gender affirming services
Assist with FMLA paperwork for gender-affirming surgery
Connect you with gender-affirming behavioral health resources
Explain the insurance prior authorization process and assist with appeals
Offer community resource referrals
Schedule appointments for most gender-affirming services
Update your legal name and gender marker in your chart, once you provide legal documentation
Patient Education Videos
We offer a range of educational videos detailing our services and procedures. These resources are designed to help you make informed decisions about your care. To view these videos, please contact our Coordinators at transgenderhealth@hsc.utah.edu for access through your MyChart account.
Video Topics Available on MyChart
Masculinizing Top Surgery
Facial Surgeries (Facial Feminization)
Transfeminine Bottom Surgery (Vaginoplasty/Vulvoplasty)
Transmasculine Bottom Surgery (Phalloplasty/Metoidioplasty)
Fertility and Family Planning
Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy
Gender-Affirming Voice Therapy
Community Partner Video Topics
Transgender Veteran Health
What Can a Gender-Affirming Mental Health Provider do for me?
Self Care and Resilience
Navigating Identity and Culture: Queer and Latine(x)
Supporting Transgender Loved Ones
Name and Gender Marker Changes
Workplace Rights and Gender Affirmation
Navigating Conversations around Sexual Health
PrEP as HIV Prevention and Living with HIV
Gender Marker Document Changes
Our providers can provide you with the letter needed to change your gender marker on official documents. This process can take up to two weeks due to the time it takes to get notarization and mail the document.
Each state may have a different process. Our resources are specific to Utah. View our resources for steps to complete a name or gender marker change.
Traveling from Far Distances (Rural and Out of State)
Travel can be burdensome, and although we are able to do some visits via telehealth, please make accommodations to come in person as well. Good preparation is critical to a having a good outcome. You will be required to stay in Salt Lake City for between 3–8 weeks after the surgery, depending on the type of surgery, and will need someone to accompany you and assist during that time.
Lodging Information
Transportation Information
Resources
For a comprehensive list of gender-affirming resources please contact our team.
University Of Utah
HIV PrEP Clinic
Interpreter Services
Non-Discrimination Policy
Why We Collect Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity
Crisis and Support Lines
Local: SafeUT Crisis Services
Trans Lifeline: 877-565-8860
The Trevor Project: 866-488-7386
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 988
Financial Aid: Grants
Black Transmen Top Surgery Scholarship
Elevated Access
Free Chest Binders and Tucking Gaffs
Genderbands
Jim Collins Foundation
Loft Gay Center
Nicolas Gogan Mutual Aid
Point of Pride
Rizi Trans Surgery Grant
Trans Therapy Assistance Program
Name and Gender Marker Changes
Equality Utah
LGBT Map (state specific laws)
Rainbow Law Clinic (free legal assistance)
Trans Equality (how to documents)
Trans Lifeline (ID change library)
Local
Encircle
Gender Identity Veteran Experience (GIVE) Program
Genderbands
LGBTQ Affirmative Therapists Guild of Utah
Mama Dragons
Utah Pride Center
Utah Crisis Food Response
Relocating
Trans Resistance Network
Trans Rescue
Insurance
Trans Health Project
Take Care Utah
Out2Enroll
Give Today
Every dollar helps advance transgender health research and provide patients with opportunities and support throughout their journey.
Give Today
We Want Your Feedback
We are constantly evolving as a program and welcome any feedback from the community that will help us meet our mission to provide safe, gender-affirmative care at University of Utah Health. Please email us at transgenderhealth@hsc.utah.edu .
Close
Search