Skip to main content
Exit Site
Apply for Legal Aid and get help now.
Apply now
Help provide equal access to justice.
Your gift will help individuals and families access critical civil legal services that protect health, safety, economic security, and family stability.
Donate Now
Latest News
Legal Aid of Arkansas continues to expand access to justice for communities across the state. Our team is actively providing free legal assistance to eligible individuals and families facing challenges related to housing, consumer protection, public benefits, and family stability.
News
Go to Previous Slide
Go to Next Slide
Event Calendar/ Free Clinics
Apply for Legal Aid
Legal Aid is a nonprofit, public interest law firm that provides FREE legal services to low-income Arkansans with civil legal problems. Apply Here !
FREE Services
Legal Services Corporation (LSC) provides funding to Legal Aid of Arkansas. To qualify for free legal help from a program funded by LSC, you must not have income and assets over a certain level. Our income eligibility guidelines are based on the Federal Poverty Income Guidelines. View our income guidelines here.
Due to limited resources, we can only accept cases that fall within our established priorities. Examples of these case type priorities include:
Guardianship;
Powers of Attorney;
Wills;
Orders of Protection;
Domestic Abuse;
Landlord/Tenant disputes;
Housing discrimination;
Contract disputes;
Debt relief;
Consumer matters;
Disability rights;
Employment rights;
Problems with public benefits, including Medicaid, Food Stamps, TEA, Medicare, SSI, child care, and subsidized housing;
End of life instructions;
Garnishments; and
Evictions.
If you need help with a legal problem, have a question you think a lawyer should answer, or have been sued and don’t know where to turn, contact Legal Aid of Arkansas! Use the menu links above to learn more.
1-800-9 LAW AID (1-800-952-9243)
If you believe you have been a victim of housing discrimination (statewide), please call the direct fair housing helpline at 1-870-338-9834.
If you meet the eligibility guidelines and would like to apply for legal aid, please click on the link below to be redirected to our online application.
Español
Legal Self-Help
Event Calendar
Donate Now
Volunteer
Story Collective
Our Impact Last Year
People Helped
9,500
Dollars Recovered/Avoided for Clients
$5,582,223
Volunteer Hours
1,500
Community Education/Outreach Events
405
Latest News
June 3 , 2026
Lawsuit Filed Against Whites-Only Housing Development in Arkansas
by Fair Housing
May 20 , 2026
Whites-Only Community in Arkansas Sued for Discrimination
by The New York Times: Debra Kamin
March 1 , 2026
Where Housing meets health: Arkansas tenant rights seen as too weak, detrimental to public health
by Northwest Arkansas Democrat-Gazette: Jada Robinson
December 15 , 2025
Center for Arkansas Legal Services to Sunset, Legal Aid Expands Coverage
by Mark Friedman, Arkansas Business
July 10 , 2025
Starting in 2026, Legal Aid will be the sole Legal Services Corporation funded organization in Arkansas
by Legal Aid of Arkansas
View All News
Newsletter Sign-Up
Thank you to our generous sponsors:
Get Involved
Donate Now
Upcoming Events
Stay in the Loop, sign up for newsletter!
Twitter
YouTube
Close Menu