Skip to main content
We’re hiring! View job openings
Current Government Closings
DSS Contract/Grant Opportunities
SNAP/TANF Benefits Inquiry
Report Abuse/Neglect
Child Abuse/Neglect Registry Checks
Agency Overview
Mission
Careers
Data and Resources
Child Abuse/Neglect Registry Checks
Fraud
Legal Team
Procurement
Disaster Response
Individual and Provider Rights/Civil Rights
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Requests
Media Relations
Office of Inspector General (OIG)
Quality Assurance/CQI
Other Resources & Helping Agencies for SC Families
Prevention
Welcome to the
Online Central Registry and Database System
for use in conducting checks of the
SC Child Abuse and Neglect Registry and Database.
UPDATE: To better protect the personally identifiable information (PII) of individuals searched in the SC Child Abuse and Neglect Registry and Database, the Central Registry Unit will no longer return the results directly on DSS Form 3072. Instead, requesters will receive a separate results letter that provides the individual's status. This new process ensures that PII remains secure while still providing the necessary information to the requesting party.
This system may be used for background checks for employment as required by state statutes,
individual agencies or businesses practices.
The Online Central Registry and Database System allow users to:
Electronically complete and submit background check requests
Pay related fees online
Get results returned by email or directly to a user account.
Avoid delays in processing and response time
Avoid data entry errors occurring from processing paper request forms
For questions or assistance, email the Central Registry Unit at: CentralRegistryInfo@dss.sc.gov
Click below for additional information on the Central Registry process:
DSS Resource 2979 Central Registry One Time Request (7.22.26)
DSS Resource 2978 Central Registry Provider Portal Account Guide (7.22.26)
Report Abuse
Food Stamps
Become A Foster Parent
Adoption
Child Support
Agency Videos
Agency Podcasts
Child Welfare Services Transformation
Best Outcomes for Children and Families
GPS Practice Model
Michelle H. Settlement Agreement Progress
Family First Prevention Services Act
Strategic Plan 2023-2028
Do you have a complaint regarding services being provided to a child by a state agency? Please submit your complaint by phone (1-800-206-1957) or an electronic submission form here with the South Carolina Department of Children's Advocacy..
Sign In
dss.sc.gov
Non-Discrimination
Privacy/Accessibility
Disclaimer
Report Fraud
This website is supported in part by funding provided through U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (USDHHS) and the
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Neither the USDHHS, USDA, nor any of its components operate, control, are responsible for,
or necessarily endorse this website (including, without limitation, its content, technical infrastructure, and policies, and any
services or tools provided). The opinions, findings, conclusions, and recommendations expressed are those of the author(s)
and do not necessarily reflect the views of the USDHHS or USDA.