TITLE 8 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1 - COMMON LAW, STATUTES AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
8-1-101. Adoption of common law.
The common law of England as modified by judicial decisions, so
far as the same is of a general nature and not inapplicable, and
all declaratory or remedial acts or statutes made in aid of, or
to supply the defects of the common law prior to the fourth year
of James the First (excepting the second section of the sixth
chapter of forty-third Elizabeth, the eighth chapter of
thirteenth Elizabeth and ninth chapter of thirty-seventh Henry
Eighth) and which are of a general nature and not local to
England, are the rule of decision in this state when not
inconsistent with the laws thereof, and are considered as of
full force until repealed by legislative authority.
8-1-102. Definitions.
(a) As used in the statutes unless the legislature clearly
specifies a different meaning or interpretation or the context
clearly requires a different meaning:
(i) "Adult" means a person who is not a minor;
(ii) "Bond" includes an undertaking;
(iii) When used in a context denoting age:
(A) "Majority" means that period of time when a
person is an adult;
(B) "Minor" means a person who has not yet
reached the eighteenth anniversary of his birth;
(C) "Minority" means that period of time when a
person is a minor.
(iv) "Month" means a calendar month, and "year" means
a calendar year; the word "year" is equivalent to the words,
"year of our Lord";
(v) "Oath" includes affirmation;
(vi) "Person" includes an individual, partnership,
corporation, joint stock company or any other association or
entity, public or private;
(vii) "Preceding" and "following," when referring to
sections in statutes, mean the sections next preceding or next
following that in which the words occur, unless some other
section is designated;
(viii) "Will" includes the words "testament" and
"codicil";
(ix) "Written" and "in writing" include printing,
lithographing or other modes of representing words and letters,
but in all cases if the written signature of any person is
required the proper handwriting of that person, or his mark, is
intended;
(x) "District attorney" includes a county and
prosecuting attorney in a county where the office of district
attorney has not been created. This definition shall
specifically not apply to W.S. 9-1-801 through 9-1-811;
(xi) "State penal institution" includes the Wyoming
state penitentiary, Wyoming state penitentiary farms and camps,
Wyoming women's center, Wyoming correctional facility, community
correctional facilities defined by W.S. 7-18-102(a)(i) and any
other state penal institution created by law for the
incarceration of convicted felons;
(xii) "Elected state official" means the governor,
secretary of state, state auditor, state treasurer and
superintendent of public instruction;
(xiii) "Intellectual disability" means significantly
subaverage general intellectual functioning with concurrent
deficits in adaptive behavior manifested during the
developmental period. "Intellectually disabled" means a person
with an intellectual disability;
(xiv) "Notarial officer" means a notary public or
other officer authorized to perform notarial acts as defined in
W.S. 32-3-102(a)(xviii);
(xv) "Last federal census" means the last official
federal decennial census as conducted and officially corrected
by the bureau of census, including any changes for boundary
modifications, to become effective on July 1 next following the
receipt of the official census figures;
(xvi) "Population" of a city, town, county,
legislative district or other political subdivision shall be
determined by resort to the last federal census;
(xvii) Repealed by Laws 2025, ch. 9, § 2.
(xviii) "Personal digital identity" means the
intangible digital representation of, by and for a natural
person, over which he has principal authority and through which
he intentionally communicates or acts;
(xix) "Organizational digital identity" means the
intangible digital representation of, by and for a corporation,
business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability
company, association, joint venture, governmental agency, public
corporation or any other legal or commercial entity that is not
a natural person, over which it has principal authority and
through which it intentionally communicates or acts;
(xx) "Honorable discharge" or "honorably discharged,"
for purposes of law providing Wyoming benefits or exemptions,
shall include any veteran of the United States armed forces or
national guard whose discharge was general or other than
honorable solely as a result of having refused a vaccine for
COVID-19 as defined in W.S. 1-1-141(a)(ii).
(xxi) "Armed forces" means the army, navy, air force,
marine corps, space force and coast guard;
(xxii) "Uniformed services" means all of the
following:
(A) The armed forces;
(B) The commissioned corps of the national
oceanic and atmospheric administration;
(C) The commissioned corps of the public health
service;
(D) Any other category of persons designated by
the president of the United States in time of war or emergency.
8-1-103. Rules of construction for statutes.
(a) The construction of all statutes of this state shall
be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly
contrary to the intent of the legislature:
(i) Words and phrases shall be taken in their
ordinary and usual sense, but technical words and phrases having
a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood
according to their technical import;
(ii) Words importing joint authority to three (3) or
more persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of
those persons, unless otherwise declared in the law giving the
authority;
(iii) Reference to a numbered section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph or other subdivision "of the statutes"
and the abbreviation "W.S." when used in conjunction with a
statute section number or its designation or identification
means the Wyoming Statutes in their most recently published form
including amendments to original enactments;
(iv) Words in the present tense include the future
tense;
(v) Words in the plural form include the singular and
words in the singular form include the plural;
(vi) Words in the masculine gender include the
feminine and neuter genders;
(vii) Any uniform act shall be interpreted and
construed to effectuate its general purpose to make uniform the
law of those states which enact it;
(viii) If any provision of any act enacted by the
Wyoming legislature or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the act which can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this
end the provisions of any such act are severable;
(ix) Reference to legislative salary, per diem or
compensation in any statute establishing the amount of salary,
per diem or compensation to be paid a person who is not a
legislator, shall be deemed a reference only to the rate of
legislative salary, per diem or compensation set by statute and
shall not be construed to authorize the payment of salary for
meeting preparation days as provided for legislators under W.S.
28-5-101(e)(iii) or the payment of salary for travel days
provided for legislators under W.S. 28-5-101(e)(iv);
(x) Reference to the "cooperative tribal governing
body" means the inter-tribal council of the Eastern Shoshone and
Northern Arapaho tribes or its official successor joint
governing body. If the cooperative tribal governing body is a
party to a cooperative agreement or contract with the state or a
political subdivision under the laws of this state, a successor
joint tribal governing body or each tribe as an individual
sovereign shall remain a party to the agreement or contract
unless specified otherwise in the agreement or contract.
8-1-104. Identification of laws amended or repealed in
amending or repealing acts.
In amending, altering or repealing any of the laws of Wyoming,
it is sufficient to identify each of the laws to be so amended,
altered or repealed by designating the particular section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph or other subdivision of the
statutes affected by the appropriate number or letter, or by the
appropriate chapter and section of a session law if the law to
be amended, altered or repealed is not a numbered statute, and
it is not necessary to refer by title or otherwise to the
original legislative enactment, or amendment thereof, to be so
affected. Each bill for an act to amend, alter or repeal any
laws in effect, but not yet published, shall refer to the laws
by their title and the date of approval by the governor. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as altering any rule or
requirement that any portion of an enactment being amended shall
be set forth in full.
8-1-105. Identification and designation of sections,
subsections and other divisions of bills; duty to insert;
method.
(a) Each section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph,
indented clause or other subdivision of every bill for any act,
memorial or resolution which may be introduced in either house
of the legislature shall be appropriately and systematically
identified and designated by number or letter before the bill is
introduced. The legislative service office shall select and
insert the identification and designation numbers and letters,
whenever needed. In arranging and furnishing copies of the laws
passed at each session of the legislature for the printer of the
session laws or the Wyoming statutes, the legislative service
office shall select and insert the appropriate and systematic
identification and designation numbers and letters.
(b) If any bill is for amendment of a prior enactment in
which sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs and other
subdivisions are appropriately identified and designated
according to a consistent pattern or system, the identification
and designation of portions of the bill may conform to that
pattern or system, but otherwise shall be accomplished in
accordance with the following rules, as nearly as practicable:
(i) The first or only section in a bill shall be
identified as section 1, and any following sections shall be
identified by Arabic numerals in sequence;
(ii) Statute sections within a bill shall be
identified by the appropriate title, chapter and section number
as: 8-1-105;
(iii) Subsections (divisions of sections) shall be
identified by lower case letters in parentheses as: (a), (b),
(c), etc.;
(iv) Paragraphs (divisions of subsections) shall be
identified by lower case Roman numerals in parentheses, as: (i),
(ii), (iii), etc.;
(v) Subparagraphs (divisions of paragraphs) shall be
identified by upper case letters in parentheses, as: (A), (B),
(C), etc.;
(vi) Subdivisions of subparagraphs shall be
identified by upper case Roman numerals in parentheses, and any
smaller subdivisions shall be identified in accordance with the
pattern and system established by this subsection, again
starting with Arabic numerals.
(c) The legislative service office may also insert
appropriate statute section numbers and section headnotes in a
bill for an act. However, statute numbers and headnotes are for
reference, identification, and to facilitate preparation of copy
for printing only, and do not constitute any part of the
substantive law of the enactment. The legislative service office
may change statute section numbers or headnotes before or after
passage of the act as necessary to correct errors or conform
statute numbers or headnotes to reflect amendments made by the
legislature to the text of the bill.
8-1-106. Effect of repeal of repealing law.
If any law is repealed which repealed a former law, the former
law is not thereby revived unless it is expressly provided.
8-1-107. Effect of amendment or repeal on pending actions.
If a statute is repealed or amended, the repeal or amendment
does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or proceedings,
civil or criminal. If the repeal or amendment relates to the
remedy, it does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or
proceedings, unless so expressed, nor shall any repeal or
amendment affect causes of action, prosecutions or proceedings
existing at the time of the amendment or repeal, unless
otherwise expressly provided in the amending or repealing act.
8-1-108. When laws take effect.
Every law takes effect ninety (90) days after the adjournment of
the session of the legislature at which it was enacted, unless a
different effective date is specified therein.
8-1-109. Payment of fines and penalties.
Unless otherwise specifically provided by law, all civil or
administrative fines or penalties collected under the Wyoming
statutes shall be paid over to the state treasurer to be
credited to the public school fund of the county in which the
violation for which the fine or penalty was imposed occurred.
8-1-110. References to males and females; separate
accommodations for males and females; data reporting
requirements.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with
respect to the application of a person's biological sex under
any law or rule and regulation in this state, the following
definitions and standards shall apply:
(i) A person's "sex" means the person's biological
sex, either male or female, at birth;
(ii) "Female" means a person who has, had, will have
or would have had, but for a congenital anomaly or intentional
or unintentional disruption, the reproductive system that at
some point produces, transports and utilizes eggs for
fertilization;
(iii) "Male" means a person who has, had, will have
or would have had, but for a congenital anomaly or intentional
or unintentional disruption, the reproductive system that at
some point produces, transports and utilizes sperm for
fertilization;
(iv) The terms "woman" and "girl" refer to human
females, and the terms "man" and "boy" refer to human males;
(v) "Mother" means a parent of the female sex;
(vi) "Father" means a parent of the male sex;
(vii) With respect to biological sex, the term
"equal" does not mean "same" or "identical";
(viii) With respect to biological sex, separate
accommodations are not inherently unequal; and
(ix) A person born with a medically recognized
condition of a disorder or difference in sex development shall
not be denied legal protections and accommodations afforded
under applicable law.
(b) The legislature finds that laws, rules and regulations
that distinguish between the sexes are subject to intermediate
constitutional scrutiny. Intermediate constitutional scrutiny
forbids unfair discrimination against similarly situated male
and female persons but allows the law to distinguish between the
sexes where such distinctions are substantially related to
important governmental objectives.
(c) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
laws, rules and regulations that recognize or enforce
distinctions between the sexes with respect to athletics,
prisons or other detention facilities, domestic violence
shelters, rape crisis centers, locker rooms, restrooms and other
areas where safety or privacy are implicated and that result in
separate accommodations between the sexes are substantially
related to the important governmental objectives of protecting
the health, safety and privacy of persons in such circumstances.
(d) Any school district, or public school thereof, and any
state agency, department, office or other political subdivision
that collects vital statistics for the purpose of complying with
anti-discrimination laws or for the purpose of gathering
accurate public health, crime, economic or other data shall,
when identification by sex is used, identify each person who is
part of the collected data set as either male or female
consistent with the person's sex at birth.
CHAPTER 2 - STATUTES, SUPPLEMENTS, SESSION LAWS AND WYOMING
DIGEST
ARTICLE 1 - STATUTES, SUPPLEMENTS AND SESSION LAWS
8-2-101. Distribution of statutes, supplements and session
laws.
(a) Statutes, supplements and session laws shall be
distributed as provided by contract with the publisher or as
directed by the management council, to the following, without
charge:
(i) Nine (9) copies to the county clerk of each
county in Wyoming, for use in the county offices and the
district court, plus one (1) additional copy for each magistrate
serving pursuant to W.S. 5-9-206 and circuit judge in each
county;
(ii) One (1) copy to each member of the Wyoming
legislature;
(iii) One (1) copy to the office of each United
States senator and the congressman from Wyoming;
(iv) One (1) copy to each judge of the district court
of Wyoming;
(v) One (1) copy to each justice of the Wyoming
supreme court;
(vi) One (1) copy to each of the five (5) elected
state officers;
(vii) One (1) copy each to the house and senate chief
clerks; and
(viii) One (1) copy to the principal county library
in each county for use therein.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section,
all copies of the statutes, supplements and session laws shall
be sold and distributed by the publisher as contracted for by
the management council.
(c) Except for the distribution of sets of the Wyoming
statutes to newly elected legislators, the distribution provided
by subsection (a) of this section applies to statutes,
supplements and session laws published hereafter, and does not
require the distribution of additional free copies of
publications already distributed.
ARTICLE 2 - WYOMING DIGEST
8-2-201. Repealed by Laws 1993, ch. 146, § 4.
8-2-202. Repealed by Laws 1993, ch. 146, § 4.
CHAPTER 3 - STATE SEAL, FLAG, FLOWER, BIRD AND OTHER SYMBOLS
8-3-101. Great seal of the state of Wyoming.
There shall be a great seal of the state of Wyoming, which shall
be of the following design, viz: A circle one and one-half
(1 1/2) inches in diameter, on the outer edge or rim of which
shall be engraved the words "Great Seal of the State of
Wyoming." The design shall conform substantially to the
following description: A pedestal, showing on the front thereof
an eagle resting upon a shield, the shield to have engraved
thereon a star and the figures, "44," being the number of
Wyoming in the order of admission to statehood. Standing upon
the pedestal shall be a draped figure of a woman, modeled after
the statue of the "Victory of the Louvre," from whose wrists
shall hang links of a broken chain, and holding in her right
hand a staff from the top of which shall float a banner with the
words "Equal Rights" thereon, all suggesting the political
position of woman in this state. On either side of the pedestal
and standing at the base thereof, shall be male figures
typifying the livestock and mining industries of Wyoming. Behind
the pedestal, and in the background, shall be two (2) pillars,
each supporting a lighted lamp, signifying the light of
knowledge. Around each pillar shall be a scroll with the
following words thereon: On the right of the central figure the
words "Livestock" and "Grain," and on the left the words "Mines"
and "Oil." At the base of the pedestal, and in front, shall
appear the figures "1869-1890," the former date signifying the
organization of the territory of Wyoming and the latter the date
of its admission to statehood.
8-3-102. Adoption, use and specifications of state flag;
penalty for misuse.
(a) A state flag is adopted to be used on all occasions
when the state is officially and publicly represented. All
citizens have the privilege of use of the flag upon any occasion
they deem appropriate. The width of the flag shall be seven-
tenths (7/10) of its length; the outside border shall be in red,
the width of which shall be one-twentieth (1/20) of the length
of the flag; next to the border shall be a stripe of white on
the four (4) sides of the field, which shall be in width one-
fortieth (1/40) of the length of the flag. The remainder of the
flag shall be a blue field, in the center of which shall be a
white silhouetted buffalo, the length of which shall be one-half
(1/2) of the length of the blue field; the other measurements of
the buffalo shall be in proportion to its length. On the ribs of
the buffalo shall be the great seal of the state of Wyoming in
blue. The seal shall be in diameter one-fifth (1/5) the length
of the flag. Attached to the flag shall be a cord of gold with
gold tassels. The same colors shall be used in the flag, red,
white and blue, as are used in the flag of the United States of
America.
(b) All penalties provided by the laws of this state for
the misuse of the national flag are applicable to the state
flag.
8-3-103. State historian to purchase state flags; use.
It is the duty of the state historian to purchase not less than
six (6) state flags. The flags shall be kept at the office of
the state historian to be loaned under rules and regulations he
prescribes to any citizen, or group of citizens, of the state
for use on such occasions when the state is officially and
publicly represented, or when public assemblies or gatherings
are held. If any flag is borrowed from the office of the state
historian, the citizen, or group of citizens, borrowing the flag
shall deposit with the state historian a certified check in an
amount sufficient to repair or replace the flag, if damaged or
lost. No deposit is required of any officer of the state
government who may be called upon to represent the state at any
official function.
8-3-104. State flower.
The Castillija linariaefolia, commonly called "the Indian paint
brush," is the state flower of Wyoming.
8-3-105. State bird.
An American icteroid bird (genus Sturnella), the bird commonly
known as the meadowlark, is the state bird of Wyoming.
8-3-106. State tree.
The Populus Sargentii commonly called cottonwood tree, is the
state tree of Wyoming.
8-3-107. State motto.
The motto "Equal Rights," as it exists on the great seal of the
state of Wyoming, is the official motto of Wyoming.
8-3-108. State songs.
The march song entitled "Wyoming," words by Charles E. Winter
and music by George E. Knapp, and the song entitled "Wyoming
Where I Belong," words and music by Annie Smith and Amy Smith,
are the official state songs of Wyoming.
8-3-109. State stone.
Jade is the official gemstone of Wyoming.
8-3-110. Flag code for Wyoming.
(a) The Federal Flag Code, P.L. 94-344, as enacted by the
United States Congress on July 7, 1976, is adopted as the flag
code for the state of Wyoming.
(b) In addition to specified dates for display of the
flag, authorized by Section 2(d) of P.L. 94-344, the United
States flag may be displayed in this state on Wyoming Day,
December 10, and on July 10, the day Wyoming was admitted to the
Union.
8-3-111. State mammal.
The Bison bison, commonly called the American bison or buffalo,
is the state mammal of Wyoming.
8-3-112. State fossil.
The fossilized fish Knightia is the state fossil of Wyoming.
8-3-113. State fish.
The Salmo clarki, commonly known as the cutthroat trout, is the
state fish of Wyoming.
8-3-114. State territorial flag.
(a) The state territorial flag shall be a flag with a
field of blue, the name "WYOMING" printed across the top of the
flag and the phrase, "CEDANT ARMA TOGAE" printed across the
bottom of the flag. In the center of the flag shall be a shield
with a border of gold divided into three (3) parts:
(i) The top half of the shield shall have the numbers
"1869" across the top and depict mountains and a train;
(ii) The lower left part of the shield shall depict a
staff, shovel, plow and pick; and
(iii) The lower right part of the shield shall depict
an arm and hand holding a sword.
(b) The provisions of W.S. 8-3-102(a) on the display and
use of the state flag shall be applicable to the display and use
of the state territorial flag.
8-3-115. State reptile.
The eastern short-horned lizard (Phrynosoma douglassi
brevirostre (Girad)) commonly known as the horned toad, is the
state reptile of Wyoming.
8-3-116. State dinosaur.
A state dinosaur shall be designated by election in accordance
with law. The results of the election naming the state dinosaur
shall be filed with the secretary of state.
8-3-117. "Bucking Horse and Rider" and related trademarks.
(a) The secretary of state shall promulgate rules
regulating the licensing or other authorized use of the "Bucking
Horse and Rider" and related trademarks.
(b) Any licensing fees, royalties or other revenues
collected by the secretary of state under this section shall be
deposited into a separate account. The legislature shall by
appropriation authorize expenditures from the account as
necessary to defray administrative expenses associated with
licensing of the trademark and expenditures required to protect,
preserve and promote the "Bucking Horse and Rider" and related
trademarks on behalf of the state.
8-3-118. POW/MIA flags.
(a) The National League of Families POW/MIA flag,
recognized by the United States Congress in P.L. 101-355 and
other federal laws, is authorized and shall continue to be
displayed directly beneath the national flag on state capitol
grounds. All other state leased or owned buildings and offices
that fly the national flag may also fly the POW/MIA flag
directly beneath the national flag on any day upon which the
national flag is displayed. Any state agency, board or
commission having authority for the supervision, control or
management of a state leased or owned building or office is
authorized to adopt rules relating to the display of the POW/MIA
flag at the state leased or owned building or office pursuant to
this section.
(b) Any county, city, town or political subdivision of the
state may display the POW/MIA flag directly beneath the national
flag on any day upon which the national flag is displayed.
(c) All protocols used in displaying national flags shall
be used in displaying the POW/MIA flag. All penalties provided
by the laws of this state for the misuse of the national flag
are applicable to the POW/MIA flag.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require
the acquisition, erection and maintenance of a flagpole or the
display of the POW/MIA flag where a pole or display of the
national flag does not already exist.
8-3-119. Rodeo as the state sport.
Rodeo is hereby designated the official state sport of Wyoming.
8-3-120. State coin.
The Sacajawea golden dollar coin is the state coin of Wyoming.
8-3-121. State grass.
The Agropyron smithii (Pascopyrum smithii), commonly known as
western wheatgrass, is the state grass of Wyoming.
8-3-122. State insect
Callophrys sheridanii, commonly known as Sheridan's green
hairstreak butterfly, is the state butterfly of Wyoming.
8-3-123. State code.
(a) The code of the west, as derived from the book, Cowboy
Ethics by James P. Owen, and summarized as follows, is the
official state code of Wyoming. The code includes:
(i) Live each day with courage;
(ii) Take pride in your work;
(iii) Always finish what you start;
(iv) Do what has to be done;
(v) Be tough, but fair;
(vi) When you make a promise, keep it;
(vii) Ride for the brand;
(viii) Talk less, say more;
(ix) Remember that some things are not for sale;
(x) Know where to draw the line.
8-3-124. State shrub.
Artemisia tridentata wyomingensis, commonly known as Wyoming big
sagebrush, is the state shrub of Wyoming.
8-3-125. Honor and remember flag.
(a) As a symbol of gratitude and respect for the ultimate
sacrifice made by members of the United States military in
service to our nation, the honor and remember flag, described
under subsection (c) of this section, may be displayed at any
state leased or owned building or office beneath the national
flag on any day upon which the national flag is displayed. Any
state agency, board or commission having authority for the
supervision, control or management of a state leased or owned
building or office is authorized to adopt rules relating to the
display of the honor and remember flag at the state leased or
owned building or office pursuant to this section.
(b) Any county, city, town or political subdivision of the
state may display the honor and remember flag beneath the
national flag on any day upon which the national flag is
displayed.
(c) The honor and remember flag is the same proportions as
the national flag. Its design contains a red field that occupies
the top three-quarters (3/4) and a white field that occupies the
bottom one-quarter (1/4) of the flag. In the center of the red
field is a five (5) pointed gold star with the top point located
near the top of the red field and the two (2) bottom points
extending approximately one-quarter (1/4) of the way into the
white field. The gold star has a white border surrounded by a
blue border. Between the two (2) bottom points of the star is a
folded national flag. At the top of the folded national flag,
extending into the center of the gold star, is a stylized flame
with one (1) blue part and two (2) red parts. In the white field
below the flag, the words "Honor and Remember" are centered. The
honor and remember flag is protected by United States copyright,
registration number VA0001670661.
(d) All protocols used in displaying national flags shall
be used in displaying the honor and remember flag. All penalties
provided by the laws of this state for the misuse of the
national flag are applicable to the honor and remember flag.
(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require
the acquisition, erection and maintenance of a flagpole or the
display of the honor and remember flag where a pole or display
of the national flag does not already exist.
8-3-126. State amphibian.
Ambystoma mavortium melanostictum, commonly known as the
blotched tiger salamander, is the state amphibian of Wyoming.
CHAPTER 4 - LEGAL TIME AND HOLIDAYS
8-4-101. Legal holidays; dismissal of schools.
(a) The following days are legal holidays in and for the
state of Wyoming:
(i) New Year's Day, January 1;
(ii) Washington's and Lincoln's birthdays, to be
observed on the third Monday in February;
(iii) Memorial Day, to be observed on the last Monday
in May;
(iv) Independence Day, July 4;
(v) Labor Day, to be observed on the first Monday in
September;
(vi) Repealed by Laws 1990, ch. 21, § 2.
(vii) Veterans Day, November 11;
(viii) Thanksgiving Day, to be observed on the fourth
Thursday in November;
(ix) Christmas Day, December 25;
(x) Repealed by Laws 1983, ch. 180, § 1.
(xi) Upon declaration by the governor of this state,
any date appointed or declared by the president of the United
States as an occasion of national mourning, rejoicing or
observance of national emergency;
(xii) Martin Luther King, Jr., Wyoming Equality Day,
to be observed on the third Monday in January.
(b) If New Year's Day, Independence Day, Christmas Day or
Veterans Day fall upon a Sunday, the Monday following is a legal
holiday.
(c) On Washington's and Lincoln's birthdays, Veterans Day,
Martin Luther King, Jr., Wyoming Equality Day and all days upon
which general elections are held, the public schools of any
district shall not be dismissed except by order of the board of
trustees of the district, but proper exercises may be held in
the schools on these days to emphasize their significance and
importance.
8-4-102. Arbor Day.
(a) The state forester shall promote the following
activities to commemorate Arbor Day, the last Monday in April:
(i) A tree shall be planted on state grounds in a
simple ceremony;
(ii) The planting of a seedling tree or some other
act may be performed in an appropriate ceremony in the schools
of Wyoming.
8-4-103. Wyoming Day.
(a) In recognition of the action of the Wyoming
territorial governor on December 10, 1869, in approving the
first law found anywhere in legislative history which extends
the right of suffrage to women, December 10 of each year is
designated as "Wyoming Day." The day shall be observed in the
schools, clubs and similar groups by appropriate exercises
commemorating the history of the territory and state and the
lives of its pioneers, and by fostering in all ways the loyalty
and good citizenship of its people.
(b) The governor, not later than December 1 of each year,
shall issue a proclamation requesting the proper observance of
"Wyoming Day" as outlined in subsection (a) of this section.
8-4-104. Nellie Tayloe Ross's birthday.
(a) In recognition of the services to the state of Wyoming
of Nellie Tayloe Ross, the first woman governor of any state in
the United States, Nellie Tayloe Ross's birthday, November 29,
is designated a public holiday. The day shall be appropriately
observed in the public schools of the state.
(b) This section, however, shall not be construed to
affect commercial paper, the making or execution of agreements
in writing or judicial proceedings, or to authorize schools,
businesses or public offices to close.
8-4-105. Native American Day.
(a) In recognition of the North American Indian, the
second Friday in May is designated as "Native American Day". The
day shall be appropriately observed in the public schools of the
state, by state and local government and by organizations within
the state.
(b) The governor, not later than April 15 of each year,
shall issue a proclamation requesting proper observance of
"Native American Day".
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of written agreements or judicial
proceedings, or authorize public schools, businesses or state
and local government offices to close.
8-4-106. Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.
(a) In recognition of the members of the armed forces who
lost their lives and those who survived the attack on Pearl
Harbor, territory of Hawaii on December 7, 1941, December 7 of
each year is designated as "Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day". The
day shall be appropriately observed in the public schools of the
state.
(b) The governor, not later than September 1 of each year,
shall issue a proclamation requesting proper observance of
"Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day".
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of written agreements or judicial
proceedings, or authorize public schools, businesses or state
and local government offices to close.
8-4-107. Juneteenth holiday.
(a) In celebration of the end of slavery in the United
States proclaimed by Major General Gordon Granger on June 19,
1865 more than two and one-half (2½) years after the
Emancipation Proclamation was issued by President Abraham
Lincoln, and in recognition of those who died and sacrificed to
achieve the end of slavery, the Juneteenth holiday is
established.
(b) The Juneteenth holiday shall be celebrated each year
with appropriate activities on the third Saturday of June.
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of written agreements or judicial
proceedings, or authorize public schools, business or state and
local government offices to close.
8-4-108. Veterans Day.
(a) In recognition of the many Wyoming citizens who have
served in the armed forces of this country, November 11 of each
year is designated as "Veterans Day." The day shall be
appropriately observed in the public schools of the state and by
organizations within the state.
(b) The governor, not later than November 1 of each year,
shall issue a proclamation requesting proper observance of
Veterans Day and requesting military and veterans' organizations
to work with the boards of all Wyoming school districts to
conduct proper exercises in observation of the contributions and
sacrifices of veterans.
8-4-109. Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day.
(a) In recognition of the members of the United States
armed forces who served bravely and faithfully for the United
States during the Vietnam War, and to all those members of the
United States armed forces who were not properly thanked or
welcomed home following their military service, March 30 of each
year is designated as "Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day." The
day shall be appropriately observed in the public schools of the
state and by organizations within the state. Additionally, it is
recommended that Wyoming communities host "Wyoming Veterans
Welcome Home Day" celebrations to ensure those members of the
United States armed forces can be properly thanked and welcomed
home.
(b) The governor, not later than March 20 of each year,
shall issue a proclamation requesting proper observance of
Wyoming Veterans Welcome Home Day and requesting military and
veterans' organizations to work with Wyoming school districts to
observe the contributions and sacrifices of Vietnam veterans and
other veterans.
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of written agreements or judicial
proceedings, or authorize public schools, business or state and
local government offices to close.
8-4-110. Agent Orange Health Awareness Month.
(a) In recognition of those who have been exposed to Agent
Orange and as many as five (5) future generations who may also
suffer from a number of deleterious health effects associated
with the toxic dioxin in Agent Orange, and in recognition that
because more than nineteen million (19,000,000) gallons of
herbicide was sprayed throughout South Vietnam, with Agent
Orange accounting for approximately eleven million (11,000,000)
gallons, causing the United States department of veterans
affairs to presume that all veterans who served in Vietnam were
exposed, the month of August of each year is designated as
"Agent Orange Health Awareness Month." The month may be
appropriately observed in the public schools of the state and by
organizations within the state. The legislature recommends that
Wyoming communities host programs during Agent Orange Health
Awareness Month to encourage all Vietnam veterans and their
offspring who have not already done so to seek proper health
screening and to educate the general population of Wyoming about
the Vietnam War era, Agent Orange and the health effects of
Agent Orange.
(b) The governor, not later than July 10 of each year,
shall issue a proclamation requesting proper observance of Agent
Orange Health Awareness Month and requesting healthcare,
military and veterans' organizations to work with Wyoming school
districts and communities to encourage health screenings and
observe the month with appropriate activities and programs.
(c) The Wyoming veterans' commission, in conjunction with
the United States department of veterans affairs, shall develop
and publicize a campaign during the month of August to encourage
Wyoming Vietnam veterans and their families to register with the
United States department of veterans affairs Agent Orange
registry health exam. The Wyoming veterans' commission may
encourage Wyoming Vietnam veterans to schedule and take the
Agent Orange registry health exam. The Wyoming veterans'
commission shall also develop and publicize an outreach campaign
to notify Wyoming Vietnam veterans of changes to the presumptive
medical conditions associated with Agent Orange as recognized by
the United States department of veterans affairs.
8-4-111. Purple Heart Day.
(a) In recognition of the purple heart as the oldest
United States military decoration in present use, created as the
badge of military merit in 1782 by General George Washington,
and in recognition that the purple heart is specifically awarded
to members of the United States armed forces including Wyoming
citizens who have been wounded or paid the ultimate sacrifice in
combat, August 7 of each year is designated as "Purple Heart
Day." The day shall be appropriately observed by state and local
governments and by organizations within the state.
(b) The Wyoming veterans' commission shall work with
military and veterans' organizations and Wyoming communities to
observe the day with appropriate activities and programs.
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of written agreements or judicial
proceedings, or authorize public schools, business or state and
local government offices to close.
8-4-112. Estelle Reel Day.
(a) In recognition of Estelle Reel, the first woman
elected and to hold the office of state superintendent of public
instruction in Wyoming and the second woman elected and to hold
a statewide office in the United States, January 7 of each year
is designated as "Estelle Reel Day." The day shall be
appropriately observed by state and local governments and may be
observed in the public schools of the state and by organizations
within the state.
(b) The governor shall, in advance of January 7 of each
year, issue a proclamation requesting proper observance of
"Estelle Reel Day."
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of agreements or judicial proceedings, or
authorize schools, businesses or state and local government
offices to close.
8-4-113. Wyoming Cowboy and Cowgirl Legacy Week.
(a) The third calendar week of September is declared to be
"Wyoming Cowboy and Cowgirl Legacy Week".
(b) Wyomingites are encouraged to observe Wyoming Cowboy
and Cowgirl Legacy Week with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.
(c) The Wyoming department of education shall encourage
schools and teachers to commemorate Wyoming Cowboy and Cowgirl
Legacy Week through appropriate activities, including study of
the Code of the West and cowboy and cowgirl related history and
literature.
(d) The University of Wyoming is encouraged to continue to
promote and safeguard the cowboy and cowgirl as an emblematic
symbol of Wyoming and instill students with knowledge of cowboy
and cowgirl values.
8-4-114. Public lands day.
(a) In tribute to the importance of public lands in the
state, to acknowledge the multiple use of public lands and in
recognition of the value of public lands to the state's economy,
open spaces, diversity of mineral, grazing and forestry
resources, wildlife and recreational opportunities, the fourth
Saturday in September of each year is designated as "public
lands day" and appropriate observance may be held by the public
and in all public schools of the state.
(b) Not later than September 1 of each year, the governor
is authorized to issue a proclamation requesting the proper
observance of "Public Lands Day."
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of written agreements or judicial
proceedings, or authorize public schools, business or state and
local government offices to close.
(d) As used in this section, "public lands" means all
federal and state public lands. "Public lands" shall not include
state trust lands managed for the benefit of Wyoming's public
schools and institutions.
8-4-115. Mountain daylight time. {Note: Contingently
effective, see effective date note.}
(a) The year-round observed time of the entire state of
Wyoming and all of the state's political subdivisions is
mountain daylight time. Wyoming exempts all areas of the state
from mountain standard time.
(b) As used in this section:
(i) "Mountain daylight time" means the period during
a year when mountain standard time is advanced one (1) hour in
accordance with 15 U.S.C. § 260a;
(ii) "Mountain standard time" means the observed time
assigned to the mountain time zone in 15 U.S.C. § 261.
8-4-116. Moon Landing Day.
(a) In recognition of American astronauts Neil Armstrong
and Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin becoming the first humans to land and
walk on the moon on July 20, 1969 and the men and women who
aided the astronauts in landing on the moon and returning home
safely, including Michael Collins who piloted the command
module, July 20 of each year is designated as "Moon Landing
Day." The day shall be appropriately observed by state and local
government and by organizations within the state.
(b) The governor may, in advance of July 20 of each year,
issue a proclamation requesting proper observance of "Moon
Landing Day."
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of agreements or judicial proceedings, or
authorize public schools, businesses or state and local
government offices to close.
8-4-117. Wyoming Reads Day.
(a) In recognition of the citizens of Wyoming who are
dedicated to the importance of early childhood literacy, the
third Tuesday in May is designated as "Wyoming Reads Day." The
day shall be appropriately observed in the public schools of the
state, by state and local governments and by organizations
within the state. The legislature recommends that Wyoming
communities hold "Wyoming Reads Day" celebrations to advance the
cause of childhood literacy and encourage early enthusiasm for
reading.
(b) The governor shall, in advance of the third Tuesday in
May of each year, issue a proclamation requesting proper
observance of "Wyoming Reads Day."
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of agreements or judicial proceedings, or
authorize public schools, businesses or state and local
government offices to close.
8-4-118. Wyoming Wednesday.
(a) In celebration of the state of Wyoming and in an
effort to bring unity to the state's communities, the second
Wednesday of every month shall be known as "Wyoming Wednesday –
Brown and Gold Day". Wyoming citizens may wear brown and gold in
recognition of Wyoming Wednesday.
(b) The governor, not later than July 10, 2025, and not
more than once each year thereafter in advance of a Wyoming
Wednesday, shall issue a proclamation requesting proper
observance of "Wyoming Wednesday – Brown and Gold Day" as
outlined in subsection (a) of this section.
(c) This section shall not affect commercial paper, the
making or execution of written agreements or judicial
proceedings, or authorize public schools, businesses or state
and local government offices to close.
CHAPTER 5 - STATUE AND REPLICA OF ESTHER MORRIS
AND CHIEF WASHAKIE
8-5-101. Statue to be placed in capitol of United States.
The statue of Esther Morris, made pursuant to Section 1, Chapter
45, Session Laws of 1955, shall be placed in the capitol of the
United States, in accordance with the provisions of section 187
of Title 40 of the United States Code Annotated, and shall there
remain as commemorative of her distinguished service to the
territory and the state.
8-5-102. Replica to be placed in state capital.
A replica of the statue specified in W.S. 8-5-101 shall be
placed in the capital of Wyoming and shall there remain as
commemorative of Esther Morris's distinguished service to the
territory and the state.
8-5-103. Statue of Chief Washakie.
In the event a commission is appointed to obtain funding for the
creation of a statue of Chief Washakie and upon completion of
the statue, the statue of Chief Washakie shall be placed in the
capitol of the United States, in accordance with the provisions
of section 187 of Title 40 of the United States Code, and shall
remain there as commemorative of Chief Washakie's historical
significance to the territory and the state.
CHAPTER 6 - OFFICIAL LANGUAGE
8-6-101. English as official language of Wyoming.
(a) English shall be designated as the official language
of Wyoming. Except as otherwise provided by law, no state
agency or political subdivision of the state shall be required
to provide any documents, information, literature or other
written materials in any language other than English.
(b) A state agency or political subdivision or its
officers or employees may act in a language other than the
English language for any of the following purposes:
(i) To provide information orally to individuals in
the course of delivering services to the general public;
(ii) To comply with federal law;
(iii) To protect the public health or safety;
(iv) To protect the rights of parties and witnesses
in a civil or criminal action in a court or in an administrative
proceeding;
(v) To provide instruction in foreign and Native
American language courses;
(vi) To provide instruction designed to aid students
with limited English proficiency so they can make a timely
transition to use of the English language in the public schools;
(vii) To promote international commerce, trade or
tourism;
(viii) To use terms of art or phrases from languages
other than the English language in documents.
CHAPTER 7 - TRIBAL RELATIONS
ARTICLE 1 - TRIBAL IDENTIFICATION CARDS
8-7-101. Tribal identification cards.
An identification card issued by the governing body of the
Eastern Shoshone Tribe or Northern Arapaho Tribe that includes
the requirements of W.S. 31-8-102(a)(i) through (vi) and (ix)
shall be considered a valid form of identification for all
purposes for which an identification card issued under W.S. 31-
8-101 may be used.
8-7-102. Prohibited acts; penalties.
(a) No person shall:
(i) Possess any cancelled, fictitious, fraudulently
altered or fraudulently obtained tribal identification card;
(ii) Lend his tribal identification card to any other
person or knowingly permit its use by another;
(iii) Display or represent a tribal identification
card not issued to him as being his card;
(iv) Photograph, photostat, duplicate or in any way
reproduce a tribal identification card or facsimile thereof in
such a manner that it could be mistaken for a valid
identification card;
(v) Use a tribal identification card that was
obtained by false swearing, fraud or false statement of any kind
or in any form.
(b) Any person who violates any provision of subsection
(a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), by
imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.