Skip Navigation
Search
Get Help
Services
Volunteer
Available Cases
About Us
News
❤️ Give to LSLA
Work With Us
Offices
Events
Resource Library
Community Support Hub
Search
Our Mission
We protect and advance the civil legal rights of low-income Texans by providing advocacy, legal representation, and community education that ensures equal access to justice.
Quick Links
Apply for Help
Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC)
TIG AI Chatbot
TIG LACI (Legal Aid Content Intelligence)
Community Justice Worker Program
Volunteer
Available Cases
We only work on civil cases and do not handle criminal cases.
Get Help
Apply Now
You can also call us. Find the LSLA office that serves the county you live in here.
What We Do
Our Services
All clients must meet financial and legal status eligibility requirements.
In 2025, Lone Star Legal Aid handled 27,973 cases, benefiting 67,153 individuals across our service area. Our work included 6,099 housing cases, 2,229 cases serving veterans, surviving spouses, and military dependents, 5,613 senior citizen cases, and 8,774 cases involving survivors of domestic violence. Through the dedication of our staff and 2,873 pro bono attorney-handled cases, we secured more than $12.69 million in economic awards and savings for our clients.
Legal Services and Special Projects
Civil Matters in Criminal Justice Project →
Community Advocacy →
Consumer →
Crime Victims Unit →
Disaster Relief →
Education →
Employment →
Eviction Defense →
Fair Housing →
Family Early Defense Network →
Family Law →
Financial Assistance & Public Benefits →
Foreclosure Prevention Project →
Legal Assistance to Survivors of Sexual Assault Project →
Legal Aid for Children&#8217;s Health and Security →
Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic →
Neighborhood Problems →
Medical Legal Partnership →
Military & Veterans Unit →
Self-Help →
Our priorities include:
Improving the delivery of legal services;
Providing advice, brief services, and referrals;
Maintaining, enhancing and protecting income and economic stability;
Seeking or maintaining safety, stability, and health or well-being;
Preserving housing and relating housing needs;
Improving outcomes for children; and
Assisting populations with special vulnerabilities.
The client did not have the financial resources to hire a private attorney. The lack of financial resources should not be a barrier to accessing safety-related orders from the civil legal justice system.
—Brandy Howard, Staff Attorney
Stories of Justice
Read More About Our Impact
Latest News
All News
Lone Star Legal Aid’s Alecia Best Helps Client Avoid $46,000 Tax Bill After Identity Theft
September 2026
By Ashley Norris
Our client never expected to owe the IRS tens of thousands of dollars. After Rita’s identity was stolen, someone attempted to file a tax return in the client’s name claiming a $33,000 refund. The IRS rejected the fraudulent return but subsequently held the client responsible for the amount, along with additional taxes and penalties, resulting in a tax bill of [&hellip;]
Read More
Lone Star Legal Aid Helps Public Housing Resident Avoid Eviction
September 2026
By Clarissa Ayala
A Lifetime of Impact: Celebrating Gloretta “Glo” Thornton’s 50 Years of Service
September 2026
By Thai-Anh Nguyen
Lone Star Legal Aid Helps Secure 15 Acres of Land and Clear Title
September 2026
By Clarissa Ayala
From Pilot to Practice: LSLA’s AI Initiative Moves Forward – Fall 2026 Update
September 2026
By Clarissa Ayala