Please help us improve our site!
&times;
No thank you
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 505.2 - Physicians' services
State Regulations
Compare
(a) General policies. Care provided by
physicians to eligible persons shall not be reimbursable as an item of medical
assistance when such care does not meet the standards for coverability pursuant
to Part 85 of Department of Health regulations or when such care does not meet
the definition of medical care or is not considered to be an available service
as defined in this Subchapter. (1)
Qualifications of physicians. Physicians shall be licensed and currently
registered by the New York State Education Department, or, if in practice in
another state, by the appropriate agency of that state. In addition thereto,
services ordinarily performed by general practitioners shall be provided only
by physicians meeting the qualifications set forth in subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph and services ordinarily performed by specialists shall be provided
only by physicians meeting the qualifications set forth in subparagraph (ii) of
this paragraph. (i) Qualifications of general
practitioners. A general practitioner is a physician who:
(a) is a member of the active or attending
staff at a hospital holding a valid operating certificate from the New York
State Department of Health; or
(b)
is a member in good standing of the American Academy of General Practice or of
the American College of General Practitioners in Osteopathic Medicine and
Surgery; or
(c) has given
satisfactory evidence of completion of a total of 150 hours of continuation
education over a three-year period based on standards approved by the State
Commissioner of Health in accordance with the following:
(1) not less than 50 hours of the 150 hours
required shall be attendance at planned instruction which shall include one or
more of the following: (i) courses conducted
by a medical school or school of osteopathy;
(ii) planned continuation education
preceptorships or similar practical training approved on an individual basis by
the Medical Society of the State of New York or the New York State Osteopathic
Society, jointly with the Office of Medical Manpower of the State Department of
Health;
(iii) for not more than 20
hours' credit in any given year, preparation and/or presentation of acceptable
scientific exhibits or papers evaluated by the Medical Society of the State of
New York or the New York State Osteopathic Society, jointly with the Office of
Medical Manpower of the State Department of Health;
(iv) continuation education approved for this
purpose by the Medical Society of the State of New York or the New York State
Osteopathic Society, jointly with the Office of Medical Manpower of the State
Department of Health;
(2) the remaining 100 hours of continuation
education shall be satisfied by allowing credit on an hour-for-hour basis for
attendance at specific scientific meetings, such as the following:
(i) attendance at meetings of medical groups,
such as local, State or national, including but not limited to county medical
societies, county osteopathic societies, academies of medicine, academies of
general practice, district and State medical societies, district and State
osteopathic societies, specialty medical meetings and meetings of the American
Medical Association and of the American Osteopathic Association;
(ii) attendance at scientific programs,
hospital staff meetings or similar medical meetings;
(iii) teaching responsibilities in a teaching
hospital or in a medical school, a nursing school or other accredited school
which teaches some branch of the health sciences;
(iv) as a preceptor for medical
students;
(v) other continuation
education activities accepted by the Office of Professional Education of the
State Department of Health, jointly with the Medical Society of the State of
New York or the New York State Osteopathic Society, as meeting these
requirements.
(d) Physicians not possessing the above
qualifications shall be given not less than one year, from a date to be
determined by the State Commissioner of Health, to meet the
qualifications.
(e) If
qualification is to be achieved by approved continuation education as provided
for in clause (c) of this subparagraph, the physician shall complete such
continuation education within three years of the date specified in clause
(d).
(f) In extenuating
circumstances involving personal or family illness or disability, health
emergencies or epidemics in the community endangering the public health, or
unavailability of adequate medical coverage through other sources, the above
requirements may be waived for any individual physician at the discretion of
the State Commissioner of Health.
(ii) Qualifications of specialists. A
specialist is a licensed physician who has submitted his or her credentials to
the Office of Health Systems Management for review, has been designated a
specialist by that office, and who, on the basis of standards approved by the
State Commissioner of Health: (a) is a
diplomate of the appropriate American board, or osteopathic board; or
(b) has been notified of admissibility to
examination by the appropriate American board, or osteopathic board, or
presents evidence of completion of an appropriate qualifying residency approved
by the American Medical Association or American Osteopathic Association;
or
(c) holds an active staff
appointment, with specialty privileges, in a voluntary or governmental hospital
which is approved for training in the specialty in which the physician has
privileges; or
(d) in psychiatry, a
physician may be recognized as a specialist if he satisfies the following
additional alternatives: (1) has been chief
or assistant chief psychiatrist in an approved psychiatric clinic and who is
recommended for approval by the director of psychiatry of the community mental
health board; or
(2) who graduated
from medical school prior to July 1, 1946, and who during the last five years
has restricted his practice essentially to psychiatry, and is certified by the
Commissioner of Mental Hygiene after approval by a committee of the New York
State Council of District Branches of the American Psychiatric Association
appointed for this purpose by the president of the council.
(b) Dispensary and clinic services and care.
(1) Dispensary and clinic services may be
utilized for complete office care, including services by general practitioners
and specialists, or may be utilized for special diagnostic, therapeutic or
rehabilitative procedures.
(2)
Dispensary and/or clinic care shall be provided only in facilities which are
operated in compliance with applicable provisions of law and the State Hospital
Code.
(c) Specialists.
(1) In addition to the services of general
practitioners, the services of specialists and consultants shall be provided
when required.
(2) Services
ordinarily interpreted to be specialist procedures shall be provided only by
physicians qualified as specialists in accordance with this section.
(d) Obstetrical care. Obstetrical
care shall include prenatal care in a physician's office or dispensary,
delivery in the home or hospital, post-partum care, and, in addition, care for
any complications that arise in the course of pregnancy and/or the
puerperium.
(e) Abortion.
(1) Definition. For purposes of this section,
an abortion shall include medication and procedural abortion that both a
pregnant person and provider agree are needed.
(2) Who may provide service. Abortion may be
performed by a health care practitioner licensed, certified, or authorized
under title eight of the Education Law, acting within their lawful scope of
practice.
(3) Establishment of
diagnosis of pregnancy. Prior to the performance of an abortion, the health
care practitioner must determine and document the estimated duration of the
pregnancy in accordance with evidence based clinical guidelines and section
2599-bb
of the Public Health Law.
(f) Chronic hemodialysis service in the home.
Provision of chronic hemodialysis service in the home shall be based on the
recommendation for such home treatment plan from a renal dialysis center or
renal dialysis facility and shall require prior approval of the local
professional director, except as provided for in section
505.30 of this Part.
(g) Methadone treatment.
(1) Methadone maintenance treatment.
Methadone maintenance treatment shall be provided only by physicians, groups of
physicians or medical facilities authorized to administer methadone to addicts
under a program authorized by State and Federal authorities in accordance with
the provisions of 10 NYCRR 80.23 . Medical facilities in this subdivision shall
mean: (i) the outpatient service of a
hospital with a valid operating certificate; and
(ii) an independent out-of-hospital health
facility possessing a valid operating certificate as provided for in article 28
of the Public Health Law or such a facility approved, as appropriate, by the
State Department of Mental Hygiene.
(2) Interim methadone treatment. Interim
methadone treatment of a drug addict who is on a waiting list for admission to
a narcotic facility conducting an authorized methadone maintenance program may
be provided by an approved medical facility or by a private physician in
accordance with the provisions of 10 NYCRR 80.22 .
(3) Reimbursement for methadone treatment and
for interim treatment. (i) Reimbursement for
methadone treatment by medical facilities shall be at rates promulgated by the
State Director of the Budget.
(ii)
Reimbursement for methadone treatment by a private physician shall be in
accordance with the applicable fee schedule.
(iii) Methadone dispensed by a private
physician shall be reimbursable at cost.
(h) Payment for hysterectomy.
(1) Payment is not available for a
hysterectomy if: (i) it is performed solely
for the purpose of rendering an individual permanently incapable or
reproducing; or
(ii) if there was
more than one purpose to the procedure, it would not have been performed but
for the purpose of rendering the individual permanently incapable of
reproducing.
(2) Payment
is available for a hysterectomy not excluded by paragraph (1) of this
subdivision, if: (i) the person who secured
authorization to perform the hysterectomy has informed the individual and her
representative, if any, orally and in writing, that the hysterectomy will make
the individual permanently incapable of reproducing, and the individual or her
representative, if any, has signed a written acknowledgment of receipt of such
information; or
(ii) the physician
who performed the hysterectomy certifies that one of the following conditions
existed: (a) the woman was sterile before the
hysterectomy was performed;
(b) the
hysterectomy was performed in a life-threatening emergency in which prior
acknowledgment by the recipient was not possible; or
(c) the woman was not a recipient of medical
assistance at the time the hysterectomy was performed but subsequently applied
for medical assistance and was determined to qualify for medical assistance
payment of medical bills incurred before her application, and the woman was
informed before the hysterectomy that the procedure would make her permanently
incapable of reproducing.
(i) Utilization review.
(1) The department has established
utilization review for physician and clinic services. Part 511 of this Title
authorizes the department to establish a system for utilization review for
specific provider service types including physician and clinic services. Part
511 also describes the services and procedures excluded from the utilization
review for all provider service types.
(2) Exclusions. In addition to those services
and procedures generally excluded from any utilization review by Section
511.2 of this Title, the following
services are excluded from the utilization review established by this
subdivision: (i) Physician services.
(a) anesthesiology services; and
(b) psychiatric services.
(ii) Clinic services.
(a) mental health services, alcoholism
treatment services, and developmental disability treatment services provided in
clinics certified under Article 28 of the Public Health Law or Article 31 of
the Mental Hygiene Law;
(b)
ambulatory services ordered by a qualified practitioner;
(c) services provided in a speech and hearing
clinic program for children with physical disabilities; and
(d) services provided in an amputee center
for children with physical
disabilities.
(j) Payment is available for physicians'
services which are part of the development of, or furnished pursuant to, an
individualized education program and which are provided by a physician employed
by, or under contract to, a school district, an approved pre-school, a county
in the State or the city of New York. Reimbursement for such services must be
made in accordance with the provider agreement.
(k) Payment is available for physicians'
services which are part of the development of, or furnished pursuant to, an
interim or final individualized family services plan and which are provided by
a physician employed by, or under contract to, an approved early intervention
program or a municipality in the State. Reimbursement for such services must be
made in accordance with the provider agreement.
(l) Gender dysphoria treatment.
(1) As provided in this subdivision, payment
is available for medically necessary hormone therapy and/or gender reassignment
surgery for the treatment of gender dysphoria.
(2)
(i)
Hormone therapy, whether or not in preparation for gender reassignment surgery,
shall be covered as follows: (a) treatment
with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agents (pubertal suppressants), based upon
a determination by a qualified medical professional that an individual is
eligible and ready for such treatment, i.e., that the individual:
(1) meets the criteria for a diagnosis of
gender dysphoria;
(2) has
experienced puberty to at least Tanner stage 2, and pubertal changes have
resulted in an increase in gender dysphoria;
(3) does not suffer from psychiatric
comorbidity that interferes with the diagnostic work-up or treatment;
(4) has adequate psychological and
social support during treatment; and
(5) demonstrates knowledge and understanding
of the expected outcomes of treatment with pubertal suppressants and cross-sex
hormones, as well as the medical and social risks and benefits of sex
reassignment;
(b)
treatment with cross-sex hormones for patients who are sixteen years of age and
older, based upon a determination of medical necessity made by a qualified
medical professional; patients who are under eighteen years of age must meet
the applicable criteria set forth in clause (a).
(ii) Notwithstanding the requirement in
clause (b) of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph that an individual be sixteen
years of age or older, payment for cross-sex hormones for patients under
sixteen years of age who otherwise meet the requirements of clause (b) of
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall be made in specific cases if medical
necessity is demonstrated and prior approval is received.
(3)
(i)
Gender reassignment surgery shall be covered for an individual who is 18 years
of age or older and has letters from two qualified New York State licensed
health professionals who have independently assessed the individual and are
referring the individual for the surgery. One of these letters must be from a
psychiatrist, psychologist, psychiatric nurse practitioner, or licensed
clinical social worker with whom the individual has an established and ongoing
relationship. The other letter may be from a psychiatrist, psychologist,
physician, psychiatric nurse practitioner, or licensed clinical social worker
acting within the scope of his or her practice, who has only had an evaluative
role with the individual. Together, the letters must establish that the
individual:
(a) has a persistent and
well-documented case of gender dysphoria;
(b) has received hormone therapy appropriate to the
individual's gender goals, which shall be for a minimum of 12 months in the
case of an individual seeking genital surgery, unless such therapy is medically
contraindicated or the individual is otherwise unable to take
hormones;
(c) has lived for 12
months in a gender role congruent with the individual's gender identity, and
has received mental health counseling, as deemed medically necessary, during
that time;
(d) has no other
significant medical or mental health conditions that would be a
contraindication to gender reassignment surgery, or if so, that those are
reasonably well-controlled prior to the gender reassignment surgery;
and
(e) has the capacity to make a
fully informed decision and to consent to the treatment.
(ii) Notwithstanding subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph, payment for gender reassignment surgery, services, and procedures
for patients under eighteen years of age may be made in specific cases if
medical necessity is demonstrated and prior approval is received.
(4) For individuals meeting the
requirements of paragraph (3) of this subdivision, Medicaid coverage will be
available for the following gender reassignment surgeries, services, and
procedures, based upon a determination of medical necessity made by a qualified
medical professional: (i) mastectomy,
hysterectomy, salpingectomy, oophorectomy, vaginectomy, urethroplasty,
metoidioplasty, phalloplasty, scrotoplasty, penectomy, orchiectomy,
vaginoplasty, labiaplasty, clitoroplasty, and/or placement of a testicular
prosthesis and penile prosthesis;
(ii) breast augmentation, provided that: the
patient has completed a minimum of 24 months of hormone therapy, during which
time breast growth has been negligible; or hormone therapy is medically
contraindicated; or the patient is otherwise unable to take hormones;
(iii) electrolysis when required for
vaginoplasty or phalloplasty; and
(iv) such other surgeries, services, and
procedures as may be specified by the Department in billing guidance to
providers.
(5) For
individuals meeting the requirements of paragraph (3) of this subdivision,
surgeries, services, an d procedures in connection with gender reassignment not
specified in paragraph (4) of this subdivision, or to be performed in
situations other than those described in such paragraph, including those done
to change the patient's physical appearance to more closely conform secondary
sex characteristics to those of the patient's identified gender, shall be
covered if it is demonstrated that such surgery, service, or procedure is medic
ally necessary to treat a particular patient's gender dysphoria, and prior
approval is received. Coverage is not available for surgeries, services, or
procedures that are purely cosmetic, i.e., that enhance a patient's appearance
but are not medically necessary to treat the patient's underlying gender
dysphoria.
(6) All legal and
program requirements related to providing and claiming reimbursement for
sterilization procedures must be followed when transgender care involves
sterilization.
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
505.2
Amended
New
York State Register March 11, 2015/Volume XXXVII, Issue 10 , eff.
3/11/2015
Amended
New
York State Register April 27, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 17 , eff.
4/27/2016
Amended
New
York State Register August 31, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 35 ,
eff. 8/31/2016
Amended
New
York State Register December 7, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 49 ,
eff. 12/7/2016
Amended
New
York State Register September 13, 2023/Volume XLV, Issue 37 , eff.
9/13/2023
Amended
New
York State Register October 2, 2024/Volume XLVI, Issue 40 , eff.
10/2/2024
State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release.
More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare.
No prior version found.
State Regulations Toolbox