Skip to content
No results
Safety Exit
Radical
community care
Trans Lifeline provides trans peer support for our community that’s been divested from police since day one. We’re run by and for trans people.
(877) 565-8860
Learn More
Mission
Trans Lifeline connects trans people to the community support and resources we need to survive and thrive.
Learn more →
Vision
We envision a world where trans people have the connection, economic security, and care everyone needs and deserves—free of prisons and police.
Over 150,000
Calls Answered
Nearly $1.5 million
Funds Dispersed
Latest Blog Posts
A Sweet Farewell from our Executive Director, Dante Alviar Horton
April 9, 2026
Advocacy , Community , Resources , Services , Trans Lifeline News
Dear Trans Lifeline Community, I hope this letter finds you deeply held and cherished. As I sit down to write to you, I find myself incredibly moved by the last almost two years that I have had the honor and privilege of being the Executive Director here. To say that this role and our work&hellip;
Continue Reading
Our Impact: Download the Trans Lifeline 2025 Annual Report
April 8, 2026
Trans Lifeline News
We are thrilled to share our 2025 Annual Report, a comprehensive look at the vital work and incredible impact Trans Lifeline has achieved over the past year. This report is a testament to the power of community, the dedication of our volunteers and staff, and the unwavering support of allies like you. Inside, you&#8217;ll learn&hellip;
Continue Reading
Announcing our Microgrants Program Relaunch!
December 9, 2025
Advocacy , Community , Resources , Services , Trans Lifeline News
December 2025 We are so grateful for your patience, understanding, questions, and support. ❤️ Two years ago, Trans Lifeline and TLGBQ+ organizations across the country experienced significant financial downturns as corporate funders pulled out from giving to many of our causes. At the time, we had to make the truly difficult decisions to pause our&hellip;
Continue Reading
Quick Exit
Press the ESC button (desktop only) or click the X at the bottom right of your window to quickly leave our site.