Skip to main content
File a Complaint
The Insurance Complaint Division provides the public with insurance information and assistance and examines consumer complaints.
File an online complaint:
Submit a Pharmacy Benefits Manager (PBM) Complaint
ONLINE COMPLAINT FORM FORMA DE QUEJA EN LINEA
Please read our Filing An Insurance Complaint webpage for additional information.
Download Complaint Form (PDF)
Before filing a complaint:
Important: If you did not live in Nebraska when you purchased the policy, please contact the state in which you lived at the time of purchase.
View a map of Insurance Departments
Contact your insurance company and request an explanation.
Make sure you have provided all information requested by the company.
If you are concerned about the handling of a health insurance claim, ask what appeal and external review procedures are available to you. ( Appealing a Health Plan Decision )
If you are not satisfied with the company’s response to your concerns, you may consider filing a complaint. Be prepared to summarize your complaint, so people who are not familiar with your issue will be able to understand.
What the Nebraska Department of Insurance cannot do:
Order the company to pay your claim or refund premium
Decide who was at fault in an accident
Act as a court of law or provide legal advice
Recommend an agent, company, or products
Identify an insurance company with whom a particular person may hold a policy
Establish the facts surrounding a claim (for example: who is being truthful when there are conflicting reports of a situation)
Determine the cause of loss, the value of a claim, the amount owed to you, or act as your adjuster
Address issues the Department can’t legally enforce
How filing a complaint with the Nebraska Department of insurance can help:
A complaint provides a fresh objective evaluation by individuals with the insurance expertise and usually prompts a new review at the insurance entity
The process allows an opportunity to provide additional understanding and documentation if it was missing
Complaints allow the Department of Insurance to evaluate whether an insurance company has complied with Nebraska law
For assistance with other entities not regulated by the Department, please refer to the following list of resources:
Policies Purchased in Another State - Map to States & Jurisdictions
Billing Disputes with Hospitals or Medical Providers – Nebraska Attorney General Consumer Mediation Center
Federal Employee Health Benefits Program – Healthcare & Insurance, Office of Personnel Management
Health Plans for Military Personnel – Appeals Fact Sheet
Workers' Compensation – Nebraska Workers' Compensation Court
Self-funded Benefit Plans – Employee Benefits Security Administration, US Department of Labor
Medicaid – Department of Health and Human Services
For federal employees: https://www.opm.gov/healthcare-insurance/healthcare/
Medicaid and Long-term care: http://dhhs.ne.gov/Pages/medicaid-and-long-term-care.aspx
EBSA: https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa
Tricare: https://www.tricare.mil/
After you file a complaint:
Once received, your complaint will be assigned to an Insurance Complaint Examiner who will send you an acknowledgment letter with a case tracking ID number. Please reference this tracking ID number for all case inquiries with the Insurance Complaint Division.
We will send a copy of your complaint to the company and/or agent and request a detailed explanation.
Companies and agents are allowed 15 business days to respond to the Department’s request for information. Some examinations may take longer depending on complexity.
After reviewing the company/agent response, the examiner will advise you of the case outcome.
Download Pre-Need Complaint Questionnaire (PDF)
Use this form if your complaint concerns the handling of a pre-need trust. A pre-need trust is the purchasing of burial or funeral merchandise (casket, vault, monument, etc.) or services prior to the time of death.
Contact Insurance Complaint Division:
Phone: 877-564-7323 (toll-free in Nebraska) or 402-471-0888 Fax:402-471-4610
Email Address: doi.insurancecomplaints@nebraska.gov
Mailing Address:
Nebraska Department of Insurance
P.O. Box 95087
Lincoln, NE 68509-5087
The Nebraska Department of Insurance
PO Box 95087
Lincoln, Nebraska 68509-5087
Phone: (402) 471-2201 Fax: (402) 471-4610
Insurance Complaint Hotline: 877-564-7323 (In-State Only)
TDD: (800) 833-7352
Hours: 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM CST Monday through Friday
Contact the Webmaster
Get Update Notices