Skip to main content
Change or Update Driver&#039;s License or ID
Address Change
Residential Address
If you have moved and your residential address has changed since your license or ID card was issued, you can get a replacement license or non-operator’s ID card with your new address on it. To get a replacement card, schedule an appointment at any DMV location . (Please note that you cannot order a replacement license with a new residential address online at this time.)
You don’t have to bring any documentation for your new address, but we will electronically verify the address you provide. There’s a $10 fee for a replacement license or ID card.
Mailing Address
If your mailing address is different from your residential address and is the only thing that has changed, you can just let us know that your mailing address has changed, without getting a replacement license or non-operator’s ID card and without any fee. (Please note that Iowa law requires you tell us whenever your mailing address changes, within 30 days of the change.) You can change your mailing address online , or by mail by completing our Change of Address Notice and mailing it to the following contact.
Motor Vehicle Division
Location
Motor Vehicle Division
Iowa Department of Transportation
P.O. Box 9204
Des Moines , IA 50306-9204
Fax
515-239-1837
Email Address
[email&#160;protected]
Remember that neither one of these options will change the address that appears on your license or non-operator’s identification card and won’t result in a new card being issued to you; these options just let you change the mailing address we use to send you official notices. If you want a new card that has your new address on it, you need to follow the instructions for changing your residential address.
Information on address changes for Safe at Home program participants.
Name Change
Changing your name on an Iowa driver's license or ID must be done in person at any DMV location by scheduling an appointment . There is a $10 charge. Applicants must provide proof of any name change.
Photocopies and faxes of documents will not be accepted.
A certified copy is one that contains the original seal and certificate of the court or registrar, rather than a simple file or date stamp.