Updated 9/29/25
PROBATE COURT OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO
NEW CASE GUIDELINES – E-FILE CORRECTION OF BIRTH RECORD
CONTENTS
Documents Required to Submit a Birth Record Correction ............................................................ 2
Documents Required to Submit a Birth Record Gender Marker Change....................................... 3
Preparation of Consent Form for Petitions on behalf of Minors ..................................................... 4
Proof of Service of Notice of Hearing ............................................................................................... 5
Proof of Residence of Adult Applicant or Minor .............................................................................. 5
Residence Requirements, Filing Status, Notifications, and Hearings ........................................... 6
New Correction of Birth Record Case Setup .................................................................................... 7
Filing on an Existing Correction of Birth Case............................................................................... 17
Review the Correction of Birth topic page for general information about Correction of Birth Record filings.
Consult an Ohio licensed attorney with specific questions about your filing.
For general questions about the status of your case, contact the Marriage department at (216) 443-8920.
2
Documents Required to Submit a Birth Record Correction
 Application for Correction of Birth Record (CCPC_HEA 2783)
(Application MUST be typed complete with ink signatures, notarized and ink-signed by notary)
 Certified copy of an Ohio birth record (preferred) or Ohio Birth Certificate
Note: Section 3705.15 of the Ohio Revised Code establishes the requirements for proof of residence at birth
and/or proof of current residence for adult applicants or minors. If the birth certificate of the adult applicant, or
minor, does not identify their place of birth was Cuyahoga County, then filing parties MUST provide proof of
current residence in Cuyahoga County to file at Cuyahoga County Probate Court. See page 5 for guidelines to
establish current residence in Cuyahoga County.
 If necessary, proof of current residence in Cuyahoga County. Upload using code ‘Supplemental Document.’
 Two (2) or more Supporting Affidavits (CCPC_HEA 2783A) of attending physician (at time of birth), AND/OR
persons, relatives, or non-relatives having personal knowledge of the facts stated in the attached application.
If only one (1) Affidavit can be obtained, then Applicant must submit at least three (3) documents supporting the facts
claimed in the Application. If no Affidavit can be obtained, then four (4) documents supporting the facts are required.
All Affidavits must be ink-signed by Affiant, and ink-signed by notary.
Affidavits notarized by an out-of-state notary MUST include an attached Certificate of Notarial Authenticity.
 Two (2) or more Supplemental Documents supporting facts stated in the Application
(in addition to Supporting Affidavits)
The Court will accept the following documents as evidence of the place and date of birth, and the parentage of the
applicant (or Minor child of the applicant), and any other facts alleged on the Application:
• Attending physician’s or midwife’s certificate of record at time of birth
• Baptismal Record showing date, place of birth, parents’ names
• Certificate of birth, or death, of a sibling child of applicant (to verify a parent’s name for correction)
• Certified Marriage Application (not the marriage license) listing place and date of birth and parentage
• Copy of Applicant’s parent’s birth certificate (to verify a parent’s name for correction)
• For a Minor child, Hospital or Medical Records (e.g., Immunization Records) verifying vital information
• Letterhead statement from Hospital where applicant or Minor was born, listing vital information—and
stating that the hospital made an error on the original birth record
• To correct the sex designation on the birth record of a Minor (or an adult who is not transitioning or
transgender), the applicant must present a letterhead statement from a hospital or physician indicating an
error was made by the hospital or physician at the time of birth
Transitioning Minors or adult applicants seeking a gender marker change, see page 3
• Honorable Discharge or Certificate of Release from Active Duty U.S. Armed Forces (DD 214)
• Naturalization record of applicant’s parents
• School records or transcripts, with an original signature from the records secretary indicating date of birth
or age at given time (obtained from the Board of Education)
• Copy of Social Security form SS-5 (microfilm printout of your original SS Application)
Copy of Social Security Numident (computer extract of your SS Application)
For more information, contact your local Social Security office, or https://www.ssa.gov/foia/request.html
The list above is not comprehensive and is provided as a guideline.
 Consent to Correction of Birth Record (by non-Applicant parent for Applications on behalf of Minors, if applicable)
 Consent to Correction of Birth Record (by Minor over the age of twelve (12) whose record is to be corrected, if
applicable)
See pages 7-16 of this guide for case setup.
3
Documents Required to Submit a Birth Record Gender Marker Change
Note: An Application for Correction of Birth Record may not be used to change the petitioner’s
name. For more information, see the Name Change topic page and consult an Ohio licensed attorney
for legal processes available for a change of name.
Documents to Submit with Your E-Filing
 Application for Correction of Birth Record (CCPC_HEA 2783)
(Application MUST be typed complete with ink signatures, notarized and ink-signed by notary)
 Certified copy of an Ohio birth record (preferred) or Ohio Birth Certificate
Note: Section 3705.15 of the Ohio Revised Code establishes the requirements for proof of
residence at birth and/or proof of current residence for adult applicants or minors.
If the birth certificate of the adult applicant, or minor, does not identify their place of birth was
Cuyahoga County, then filing parties must provide proof of current residence in Cuyahoga
County to file at Cuyahoga County Probate Court. See page 5 for guidelines to establish
current residence in Cuyahoga County.
 If necessary, proof of current residence in Cuyahoga County. See page 5 for guidelines.
Upload using code ‘Supplemental Document.’
 Licensed Professional Statement or similar supporting medical document from a licensed
professional
Additional Documents to Submit (if petitioning on behalf of a Minor)
 Consent to Correction of Birth Record (by non-Applicant parent for Applications on behalf of
Minors, if applicable)
 Consent to Correction of Birth Record (by Minor over the age of 12 whose record is to be
corrected, if applicable)
 If necessary, proof of current residence of Adult applicant in Cuyahoga County. See page 5 for
guidelines. Upload using code ‘Supplemental Document.’
See pages 7-16 of this guide for case setup.
4
Preparation of Consent Form for Petitions on behalf of Minors
When Consent to Correction of Birth Record is submitted via the E-File Gateway, it must be ink-
signed by the consenting party in front of a Notary Public and scanned as a PDF.
Note: Consents may NOT be signed with an E-Signature (e.g., “/S/Typed Name”).
Any Consent signed and submitted using “/S/” will be rejected.
Note: If the Applicant is a parent to a Minor, Applicant Consent is not necessary.
If Consent is NOT submitted with your E-Filing at the creation of the case…
For Petitions on behalf of Minors under the age of 12
Applicant MUST present to the Court one of the following at the hearing:
1. Consent to Correction of Birth Record signed and notarized by non-Applicant Parent of the Minor
under the age of 12.
OR
2. Proof of Service of Notice of Hearing to the non-Applicant Parent. See page 5 of this guide for
information about proof of service.
For Petitions on behalf of Minors over the age of 12
Applicant MUST present to the Court the following at the hearing:
1. Consent to Correction of Birth Record signed and notarized by the non-Applicant Parent of the Minor
over the age of 12, AND a separate Consent form signed and notarized by the Minor.
OR
2. Proof of Service of Notice of Hearing to the non-Consenting Parties. See page 5 of this guide for
information about proof of service.
5
Proof of Service of Notice of Hearing
Proof of Service of Notice of Hearing shall be sent by U.S. Certified Mail Service to non-Consenting parties.
Service of Notice of Hearing may also be sent by commercial mail carriers (e.g., FedEx).
If the address of the non-Consenting Party is unknown, U.S. Certified Mail Service should be attempted at the
LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. At the hearing, the Court will inquire as to your attempts to locate the non-
Consenting party including proof of U.S. Mail Service.
Provide ONE of the following as Proof of Service:
• Returned Certified Mail “green card” clearly identifying recipient, OR
• Printed Delivery Confirmation of Mail from the online U.S. Post Office Certified Mail tracker, OR
• Printed Delivery Confirmation of Mail from a commercial mail carrier, OR
• The Undelivered Certified Mail returned to the Applicant or Applicant’s attorney.
Note: If service is unclaimed, the Applicant must submit evidence of the unclaimed mail to the Court and may
be required to file a motion to serve by ordinary mail. Additional hearings on the matter may be scheduled.
Proof of Residence of Adult Applicant or Minor
Section 3705.15 of the Ohio Revised Code establishes the requirements for proof of residence at birth and/or
proof of current residence for adult applicants or minors.
If the birth certificate of the adult applicant, or minor, does not identify their place of birth was Cuyahoga
County, then filing parties must provide proof of current residence in Cuyahoga County for the last sixty (60)
days to file at Cuyahoga County Probate Court.
Current residence in Cuyahoga County may be established by uploading as Supplemental Document on the
ADD DOCUMENTS screen any of the following:
• Applicant’s driver’s license or State ID with a current address issued over 61 days ago, or
• Utility bill addressed to Applicant at current address dated 61 days prior to filing, or
• Government-issued document with Applicant name and current address issued over 61 days ago.
If you have none of the above documents verifying your residence in Cuyahoga County, you must
first review your residence status with a magistrate at the Probate Court prior to filing.
6
Residence Requirements, Filing Status, Notifications, and Hearings
Residence Requirements
Ohio law provides that whoever claims to have been born in Ohio, and whose registration of birth has not been
properly or accurately recorded, may file an application to correct their birth record:
• In the Probate Court of the county of birth.
• In the Probate Court of the county of current residence.
• In the Probate Court of the county in which the mother resided at the time of birth.
Filing Status and Notification
• If the filing is accepted, you will receive notification by email.
• If the filing is not accepted, you will receive notification of the reason for rejection by email.
Corrected filings may be resubmitted within 72 hours. After 72 hours, you must file a new case.
Additional Information
• Changes to Pending Applications
Any incorrect information and/or any changes made to your Application AFTER the initial filing date AND once
publication has started MAY DELAY the Court proceedings.
• After the Hearing at Probate Court
After the hearing, the court will send a certified summary of its finding and order to the director of health, of the
Ohio Department of Health and Bureau of Vital Statistics, in Columbus, Ohio.
Please allow 5 business days for the Probate Court to send the order to Columbus.
• After Columbus Registers the Order
After the Ohio Department of Health registers the court order, you may request your birth certificate from your
local Office of Vital Statistics. For more information, contact the Bureau of Vital Statistics at (216) 664-2315.
Please allow 4-6 weeks for the ODH to register and prepare your birth certificate.
Information about Your Hearing
• If a hearing is scheduled, you will receive a Notice of Hearing by regular mail or email within 3-5 business
days. In some instances, your Notice will include additional instructions from the hearing officer (e.g., hearing
format, request for additional supporting evidence, etc.).
• You MUST have available the Original Paper Documents for your Hearing, whether by Zoom or in person.
• Please arrive at least 20 minutes before your scheduled hearing.
Applicants who reside in Ohio MUST appear in person at Court with proper photo identification.
Out-of-State Applicants may call the Probate Court Marriage Department at (216) 443-8921
for additional instructions.
The Probate Court is located at 1 West Lakeside Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113.
If you have a scheduling conflict, please call 216-443-8979. The Court will make every effort to accommodate a
convenient date and time for all parties concerned.
7
New Correction of Birth Record Case Setup
From the Electronic Filing Home Page select E-File Forms.
From the Miscellaneous menu, select the application that matches your circumstances:
- Application for Correction of Birth Record (CCPC_HEA 2783).
8
Documents must be TYPED. Handwritten applications will be rejected.
Complete the Application (Form CCPC HEA 2783). Then print it for ink signatures and notary seal.
Scan to your PC your Supporting Affidavits and Evidence documents.
See the CONTENTS and pages 2 or 3 of this guide for a list of required documents.
All highlighted areas must be typed complete.
IMPORTANT
Information recorded in this box
should match information
currently listed
on the Birth Record
9
Once your Application and required documents are prepared, signed, and notarized, scan them to
your PC as separate PDF files, then return to the Electronic Filing Home Page.
If you have a registered E-File Account, Login with your email address and password at the Gateway
and continue to page 8.
If you do not have an E-File Account, select E-File Registration and complete all required fields as
shown below.
Create An E-File Account. Your request will be reviewed within 72 hours.
Notice of account approval will be sent to your email.
10
At the E-File Home Page, select the E-File Gateway Login to access your account.
Login using your Login ID (email address) and your Password.
Go to the E-Filing Tab and select File A New Case.
11
For Case Category select CIVIL/MISCELLANEOUS.
For Type of Filing select CORRECTION OF BIRTH RECORD.
(For gender marker changes, select: CORRECTION OF BIRTH RECORD G.)
For Case Title type the full current name of the person who needs correction of a birth record.
Note to Clerk is an optional field for brief notes or questions for the E-File clerk.
DO NOT use this field to present facts or questions relevant to your hearing.
Tip: Click Save to store your filing progress with a Confirmation number. (Use this option if you wish
to stop here and complete your filing later.)
Click Save and Proceed to store your progress, assign a Confirmation number, and advance to the
ADD PARTY MEMBERS screen.
12
At the ADD PARTY MEMBERS screen, add the APPLICANT and MINOR party roles.
Click Save after each entry:
1. APPLICANT role (required for ALL filings) – Add your full present name.
When the adult filing is… yourself for your own birth certificate.
father or mother of a Minor child.
guardian/agent on behalf of an adult or Minor child.
2. MINOR role (required for ALL filings) – Add the name from the box on the Application.
Enter the “Full Name of Child” as typed in the box on the Application form,
(CCPC HEA 2783) that should match the name listed on the existing Birth Record.
Attorneys representing the APPLICANT should file using their attorney E-File account.
Be sure to click Save after each party role entry.
Use PARTY ROLE REVIEW for edits before selecting Save and Proceed.
The ADD DOCUMENTS screen follows…
Edit Delete
13
After you ADD PARTY MEMBERS, you must ADD DOCUMENTS for the filing.
(See the CONTENTS and pages 2 or 3 for a list of required documents to create a case.)
Browse and locate on your PC your saved PDF files. Upload each required document separately.
(Select document types from the drop-down menu.)
Enter the number of pages in your uploaded file in the area provided.
Then select Add This Document.
14
Added document(s) will display in the DOCUMENT REVIEW area.
Select Save and Proceed to continue to the FILING REVIEW screen.
Select EDIT to make corrections. Select Save and Proceed to continue to the PAYMENT screen.
15
Payment is authorized at the time of submission.
Your Credit or Debit Card will be charged only AFTER your E-Filing has been accepted.
Submit the filing “On Behalf of” the “APPLICANT” party role.
The name on the credit/debit card MUST match the Registered Account Name.
Complete the billing information of the Card that will be charged.
Third party payments without an attorney E-Firm Account or prior written approval by the
E-File Department will be rejected.
Review your information, then select SUBMIT FILING to send your filing to the Court for review.
A confirmation screen will display. Print a copy for your records.
Tip: After submission,
filings cannot be edited.
However, they can be
Canceled any time
prior to acceptance on
the My Filings tab.
16
Information about Your Filing and Hearing
After review, the Court will send an email indicating your filing has been Accepted or Rejected.
Users have 72 hours to edit rejected filings and resubmit under the same confirmation number.
The Court will send separately a hearing notice for Accepted filings, with the date and time to appear
at the Probate Court. Please arrive at least 20 minutes before your scheduled hearing.
If you have a scheduling conflict, please call 216-443-8979. The Court will make every effort to
accommodate a convenient date and time for all parties concerned.
17
Filing on an Existing Correction of Birth Case
E-Filing Tab: Select File On An Existing Case
Search your existing case by Case Number or search by Party name.
Search Results will display in a new window. Click on the Highlighted Name of your case.
Click the green to E-File on existing cases.
1. On the ADD PARTIES screen (scroll to the bottom of the screen to view case parties):
If you are filing Pro Se as Applicant
Click CLAIM PARTY next to your name
Then click SAVE and PROCEED to advance to ADD DOCUMENTS
Attorneys
To CLAIM an existing party to represent Click CLAIM PARTY
next to the party’s name
If your party is already
represented and claimed
(Attorney name highlighted above
Applicant or other party’s name)
Click SAVE and PROCEED to advance
directly to ADD DOCUMENTS
2. ADD DOCUMENTS: Upload your Supporting Documents or other pleadings.
See pages 2 or 3 of this guide for a list of required supporting documents for your case type.
Forms MUST be typed complete with ink signature or E-Signature of parties and attorneys.
If you are NOT listed as a party on the case
(but think you should be)
STOP!
Contact the E-File
Help Desk
at (216) 443-8948
for assistance
18
3. FILING REVIEW: Review your data and documents for accuracy. EDIT for corrections.
4. PAYMENT: Payment is authorized at the time of submission. Your Credit or Debit Card
will be charged only AFTER your E-Filing has been accepted.
Existing Applicants filing Pro Se Submit filings on behalf of yourself as Applicant
Attorneys Submit filings on behalf of your client Applicant, or
other interested party
Complete the billing information of the Card that will be charged.
The name on the credit/debit card MUST match the Registered E-File Account Name.
Third party payments without an attorney E-Firm Account or prior written approval by
the E-File Department will be rejected.
Review your information, then select SUBMIT FILING to send your filing to the Court for
review.
Print a copy of the pending submission Confirmation for your records.
You will receive an email from the Court indicating your filing has been Accepted or Rejected.
If the filing is Rejected, you will receive notification of the reason for rejection by email. Corrected filings
may be resubmitted within 72 hours. If you do not correct the rejected filing within 72 hours, you must
start the filing again with a new confirmation number.
For assistance with E-Filing, contact the E-File Help Desk at (216) 443-8948.
For questions about Corrections of Birth, contact the Marriage Department at (216) 443-8920.