Skip to main content
Search
Get Legal Help
Hotlines
Intake Form
Explore by Legal Issue
Consumer Housing
Family Law
Medical Legal Community Partnership
Taxpayer Support
Unemployment Compensation
Pennsylvania Farmworker Project
All Legal Issues
News
Resources
About
PLA Professionals
Departments
Careers
Board of Directors
History
Donate
Search
General Intake Unit
Name Change
PLA can help you understand the process of an adult name change or a minor name change by providing advice and referrals.
Adult Name Change
When an adult wishes to legally change their name, a petition needs to be filed with the Court of Common Pleas; there is a filing fee of $333.23 that may be waived by the Court if you can prove you are low-income, however, there are usually publication fees that cannot be waived by the Court. The Court will then decide in a hearing whether to grant the name change. In special cases, we can refer a name change case to a pro-bono attorney to assist with the process. Additionally, we have a self-help guide to take you step by step through the process when changing your name.
Minor Name Change and Birth Certificates
If both biological parents who are on the child’s birth certificate agree to the name change they can complete and sign the form on the back of their child's birth certificate. The form is then mailed to the Department of Vital Statistics along with the $20 fee. The Department of Vital Statistics will send the parents a new birth certificate containing the child's new name.
If there is a parent who does not agree to the name change, then a parent must petition the Court of Common Pleas. The procedures and forms for filing a name change petition for a child are similar as for an adult. Although, the parent or legal guardian who is seeking the name change for the minor will have to prove to the Courts that the change is in the best interest of the minor.
Intake Process
General Intake Hotline
Monday through Thursday from 9:30 a.m. to 12 p.m. at 215-981-3800.
Apply Online
Apply online for an issue, anytime by filling out our online application. Click the button below to take you to our application site. Note: this will open in another tab in your browser.
Apply Online
Available Translations
Español
中文
Tiếng Việt
Other Resources
Bankruptcy
Criminal cases
Debt Collection
Driver&#039;s Licenses & Birth Certificates
Earned Income Tax Credit
Health Insurance
Lawsuits
Probate, Wills & Estates
Utilities
Related Self-Help Material
Resources
Relevant Team Members