Skip to main content
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
LGBTQ Health
A person who is transgender or nonbinary has a different gender identity than the one associated with the sex they were assigned at birth. Being transgender or nonbinary looks different for everyone. Good health care practitioners meet and respect each person as they are. Some people may:
Change their bodies with hormones, puberty-blockers, or surgery. Gender-affirming care can help someone align their physical body with their gender identity, but not everyone will make these changes. Keeping their hormones or body unchanged doesn't affect the validity of their trans or nonbinary identity.
Express gender through clothing, hair, makeup, pronoun usage, and other means.
Adhere to one of the normative binary genders by identifying as a man or a woman, male or female.
Identify with a gender that exists outside the male/female binary, such as genderfluid, genderqueer, polygender, bigender, Two-Spirit, and many others.
Ultimately, transgender and nonbinary people want to be treated with respect and in a way that aligns with their identity. The following resources are meant to help transgender and nonbinary people in Wisconsin find information and support.
Resources
General resources
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists —Health care information for transgender and nonbinary adults.
Center of Excellence for Transgender Health: University of California San Francisco —Information about transgender health for the public and health care providers.
Coming Out: Living Authentically as Transgender or Nonbinary —A resource meant for anyone and everyone whose gender identity does not align with the sex they were assigned at birth.
Debunking myths — A series of short videos debunking some health-related myths about transgender people.
FORGE: Transgender Aging Network —Information for transgender persons on aging. Also, FORGE works with SAGE to create downloadable resources on aging-related topics.
How to tuck —A guide to safer tucking for trans-feminine or non-binary people.
How to bind —A guide to safer chest binding for trans-masculine or non-binary people.
How to be a good ally —A guide to share with friends and family who want to support someone who is trans or non-binary.
Trans & Nonbinary Health: Howard Brown Health —Information on transgender and gender-nonconforming health care.
Safety and anti-violence
Diverse and Resilient — Organization providing individual counseling and advocacy, information and referral, safety planning, and support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer communities in Wisconsin.
FORGE: Anti-Violence —Resources for transgender survivors of violence and their loved ones.
Sexual health
Safer Sex for Trans Bodies —Safer sex guide for transgender persons and their partners.
Transgender groups in Wisconsin
FORGE —Transgender anti-violence group based in Milwaukee.
PFLAG —Find your nearest chapter, or start your own.
Wisconsin Transgender Health Coalition —Wisconsin group focused on transgender health.
Youth
Gender Creative Kids organization based in Tio’tia:ke (Montréal) that advocates for the inclusion of trans and nonbinary youth in all spheres of life
Guide to being an ally to transgender and nonbinary youth
Inclusion Clinic at Froedtert Hospital
Pediatric and Adolescent Transgender Health (PATH) Clinic: UW Health —Services and resources provided by University of Wisconsin Pediatric and Adolescent Transgender Health (PATH) Clinic.
You are Made of Medicine —Mental health peer support manual for indigiqueer, two-Spirit, LGBTQ+, and gender non-conforming indigenous youth
Glossary
Last revised June 26, 2026