Philadelphia FIGHT provides comprehensive, equitable, and compassionate healthcare and support services for individuals and communities facing health disparities. We work to eliminate barriers to health and well-being through primary and specialized care, harm reduction, clinical research, education, and advocacy.
Learn more about Our Mission
Make an Appointment Take the first step toward better health today.
Scheduling an appointment at Philadelphia FIGHT is simple and convenient. Whether you need primary medical care, dental services, behavioral health support, or specialized care, our compassionate team is here to help you get the care you need. Contact the appropriate health center or book online where available to take the first step toward better health today.
Make an Appointment Today!
Quicklinks
Find a Doctor
Appointments
Health Centers
Events
Laundry
Locations
Get Vaccinated
Featured Articles
SAVE THE DATE
An Evening of Remembrance and Gratitude
On December 4th, from 6 to 9 PM, Philadelphia FIGHT and the AIDS Law Project of Pennsylvania will host a reception to celebrate and honor these noble individuals.
Learn More
about SAVE THE DATE
FIGHT | Strategic Plan
Download Philadelphia FIGHT’s Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2026–2031 to learn about the organization’s priorities, goals, and vision for expanding equitable, compassionate healthcare. The plan outlines FIGHT’s roadmap for serving communities throughout Philadelphia over the next six years.
Download Now (PDF)
about FIGHT | Strategic Plan
Caitlin Jaeckel Joins Philadelphia FIGHT as Associate Medical Director at Broad Street Love Clinic
Caitlin Jaeckel, PA-C, MHS, AAHIVS, has joined FIGHT&#8217;s clinic at Broad Street Love in September. Caitlin holds a Bachelor of Science in Health Science from James Madison University and a Master of Health Science &#8211; Physician Assistant degree from Drexel University&#8217;s College of Nursing and Health Professions. Prior to coming to FIGHT, Caitlin worked at&#8230;
Read More
about Caitlin Jaeckel Joins Philadelphia FIGHT as Associate Medical Director at Broad Street Love Clinic
Sam Morales Community Health Center Now Open
Philadelphia FIGHT would like to thank everyone for their support for the opening of the Sam Morales Community Health Center!
Learn More
about Sam Morales Community Health Center Now Open
Contacts at FIGHT
Philadelphia FIGHT
(215) 985-4448
Jonathan Lax Center
(215) 790-1788
John Bell Health Center
(267) 725-0252
Y-HEP Health Center
(215) 344-1632
Dental Services
(215) 525-3046
Pediatrics
(215) 525-8600
Check Out Our New Series of FIGHT Stories
FIGHT Stories is an annual project that started in 2010 as a way for FIGHT’s clients and consumers to share their personal stories of struggle, triumph and hope with our community. At FIGHT, we believe storytelling is one of the most valuable tools we have to communicate how impactful the work of our agency has been and continues to be in the lives of those we serve. Every year, a dedicated team of staffers and interns begins the multi-step, multimedia process of interviewing, audio/video recording, photographing story participants and finally, compiling the words of each participant into a story than can be shared on the internet, in FIGHT publications, and on our office walls. 2020 is the 10th anniversary of the FIGHT Stories Project, and we’re proud to have profiled nearly 100 community members. These stories are the heart of FIGHT and we look forward to sharing more inspiring and powerful journeys of the clients and consumers that we are proud to serve.
Learn More about Fight Stories
Spotlights
The Lax Center Welcomes Dr. Sam Albanesi
Dr. Sam Albanesi joined Philadelphia FIGHT in August 2024. After earning a Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry from Allegheny College, he earned a Master of Arts in Urban Bioethics from Temple University and a Doctor of Medicine degree from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple. Dr. Albanesi completed his residency in Internal Medicine and a fellowship in Infectious Disease at Temple University Hospital.
Learn More Dr. Sam Albanesi
eNewsletter
Sign up for our eNewsletter to keep up-to-date on FIGHT news.
LinkedIn
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Email
Subscribe Now
&#916;
&#10005;
Search for: