Skip to main content
County Division
312-603-5710
County Division Services
CountyDivservices@cookcountycourt.com
Richard J. Daley Center, 50 West Washington St.,
Room 1202,
Chicago, IL 60602
Monday:
Monday: 8:30 am-4:30 pm
Tuesday:
Tuesday: 8:30 am-4:30 pm
Wednesday:
Wednesday: 8:30 am-4:30 pm
Thursday:
Thursday: 8:30 am-4:30 pm
Friday:
Friday: 8:30 am-4:30 pm
Saturday:
Closed
Saturday: Closed
Sunday:
Closed
Sunday: Closed
The County Division is established pursuant to General Order 1.2, 2.1 (d) of the General Orders of the Circuit Court of Cook County. The County Division hears actions concerning a variety of matters, including, but not limited to the following: adoptions, election matters, emancipation of minors, mental health, municipal incorporations, orders of protection filed in conjunction with a mental health proceeding, name changes, tax deeds, tax objections and other matters formerly cognizable in the Circuit Court that are not heard in another division. T
Tax Deed Assignment Call - September - 2026
Tax Deed Assignment Call - October 2026
County Division Case Files
County Division case files may include the following types of documents: petitions, appearances, motions, affidavits, applications, certificates, notices, court orders and transcripts.
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I request access to adoption records?
Adoption records are restricted by statute, a court order must be obtained for access to the records.
Can a non-family member petition the court to have a person involuntarily committed?
Yes, the involuntary commitment process is the same whether a family member or non-family member petitions the court after observing a person exhibiting dangerous behavior toward themselves or others.
What options do I have if my child will not take their medication while they are in the hospital?
The treating physician may petition the Court requesting that your child be administered the required medication by force. If the Court agrees with the evidence presented in a court hearing by the treating physician that your child is in need of medication, a court order will be issued indicating that your child will receive the necessary medication by force. If the Court does not agree with the treating physician, an order will be entered in favor of your child. The Court will weigh all of the evidence presented at the hearing to make a determination.
How do I obtain information in my adoption case file (biological parents, medical history, siblings, etc.)?
The Clerk's Office, by law, cannot release adoption information. However, the petitioner in an adoption case can register with the Illinois Adoption Registry. It is possible that your birth parent(s) may already be registered and you don't need to search for them. If your birth parents are not registered, you can petition the Court for the appointment of a Confidential Intermediary.
I just received a “Take Notice” stating that my property has been sold for delinquent taxes and I did not own the property at the time the delinquent taxes were due. Do I have to pay these taxes?
The tax purchaser is responsible for notifying all interested parties, including the owner, that the taxes have been sold on a particular property. If you are the owner, you should request an Estimate of Redemption from the Real Estate Taxation Services Division of the County Clerk's Office located at the Cook County Building, 118 North Clark St., Room 434, Chicago, IL.
If you are an occupant or an otherwise interested party, you are being given notice that the taxes have been sold on the property. You should contact the owner right away to determine if they are aware of the situation. Please note that the current property owner is responsible payment of all taxes due and owed on their property.
Where can I obtain a Change of Name?
The Change of Name court forms may be obtained, in person, from the information counter in the County Division, Room 1202, or from the Illinois Supreme Court’s website at https://services.cookcountyclerkofcourt.org/Forms/Forms/pdf_files/NCR303.pdf
As of 3/1/25, per Public Act 103-1063, the following will go into effect in regards to name changes:
Publication will no longer be required.
The residency requirement will be lowered from 6 to 3 months.
Petitioners can request to impound a case based on health or safety reasons.
For questions regarding these changes, call (312) 603-5030
Where can I review County division files?
All County Division files can be viewed in Rooms 1201 and 1202 of the Richard J. Daley Center, 50 W. Washington St., Chicago, IL 60602.
District Information
District 1 – Daley Center
50 West Washington St.,
Chicago, IL 60602