Skip to main content
Judicial Branch of California
Index: All Pages
Ask the court to recognize your gender change and change your name
To get started, fill out the forms below.
↗ ️ All court form links open in a new tab.
PRINT
EMAIL
Enter your email
We'll only use this email to send this link
TEXT
Enter your mobile number
Ten digit mobile number starting with the area code (e.g. 4158654200)
Select your mobile carrier
Select your mobile carrier Boost Mobile Cricket Wireless Alltel Google Fi MetroPCS AT&T Republic Wireless Sprint T-Mobile Verizon U.S. Cellular Virgin Mobile
We'll only use this mobile number to send this link
Fill out forms
Petition for Recognition of Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier, Name Change, and Issuance of New Certificates (form NC-300)
Order Recognizing Adult's Change of Gender and Sex identifier, for Name Change, and for Issuance of New Certificate (form NC-330)
If you want to change your information on your child's birth certificate, fill out Birth Certificate for Child of Petitioner–Attachment (form NC-311) and attach it to form NC-300.
If your child is 18 or older, they must also sign.
If you want to change your marriage certificate, fill out Marriage License and Certificate–Attachment (form NC-312) and attach it to form NC-300.
If your spouse did not sign form NC-312, also fill out Order to Show Cause–Issuance of New Marriage License and Certificate (form NC-325)
Civil Case Cover Sheet (form CM-010)
💵 You will need to pay a fee when you file the forms ($435 - $450). If you can't afford the fee, fill out another form to ask for a fee waiver ↗ ️ (link opens in a new tab).
📌 If you prefer, you can use an online program to fill the forms out. You'll have to print the forms to file them with the court, or, if your court allows it, you can file them online (e-file). Check your local court's website to see if they allow e-filing.
Fill out forms online
⚠ ️ Starting July 1, 2026, courts will automatically keep your petition and related court records private in most cases. If you filed before July 1, 2026, you can still ask the court to make your records private .
Find out if you have any local forms to fill out
Some courts also have local forms you have to use.
Check with your court clerk’s office or your court's website ↗ ️, or talk to your self-help center ↗ ️to ask if they have any local forms you need to use.
Your self-help center may also be able to review your forms before you file them.
Make a copy
Make 1 copy of all of your forms.
When you file them, the court will keep the original and return the copy to you, stamped.
Keep the copy for yourself.
Once you’ve completed the forms, you’ll file them with the court clerk.
Go back to an overview
Return to an overview of the whole process to get a court order recognizing your gender change and changing your name.
Send this page to yourself
Enter your email
We'll only use this email to send this link
Go to the next step
Get step-by-step instructions for filing your forms with the court.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
did this information help you with your case?
Great! Anything you can share about what made it helpful?
Sorry to hear that! What would make this more helpful?
Any Additional Feedback?
Email (optional)
This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.
Leave this field blank
Was this helpful?
success alert banner:
Have a question about Gender recognition?
Look for a "Chat Now" button in the right bottom corner of your screen. If you don’t see it, disable any pop-up/ad blockers on your browser.