Fight For Justice & Equality in Vermont
The Latest
News & Commentary
2026 General Election Voter Planning Guide
Make your plan today with this essential guide.
News & Commentary
Crisis by Design
When people’s basic needs are met, our communities can thrive. Through administration chaos and rushed emergency rulemaking, the Scott administration has weaponized the Vermont Homelessness Response Continuum against our most vulnerable neighbors.
Resource
Know Your Rights: Immigration Resources
News & Commentary
Advancing True Community Safety
Burlington is not alone in the challenges it faces—and the city council's "Burlington Forward" resolution is not the solution.
Issues We're Monitoring
Community
Housing
Legislative Updates
Border Patrol in Vermont
Community Safety & Policing
Criminal Legal Reform
Reproductive Freedom
View All Issues
Building a Firewall for Freedom
Vermont has some of the strongest protections for civil rights and civil liberties in the country, but there is more we must do to counter those who seek to turn back the clock on the progress we have made together.
View Campaign
Featured Case
A.V. v. Vermont Dept. for Children and Families; Copley Hospital; and Lund
The ACLU of Vermont and partners are suing Vermont DCF, Lund, and Copley Hospital for egregious constitutional violations against a pregnant woman, A.V. This case exposes DCF's grave pattern of surveillance, deception, and violation of Vermont's Reproductive Liberty Amendment.
View All Cases
Make an impact
Take Action
Today, years of hard-fought civil liberty protections are under threat.
To influence lawmakers, we need everyone to get involved.
Join the ACLU-VT Action Team
Join the Action Team
Donate to the ACLU of Vermont
Donate Today
Action {{ slotProps.activeSlide }} of
2
Stay Informed
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement .