CV-491, 03/25 Basic Steps for Handling a Confidential Name Change
This form shall not be modified. It may be supplemented with additional material.
Page 1 of 2
Basic Steps to Handling a Confidential Name Change
This guide provides a general outline of confidential name change proceedings in Wisconsin. Procedure
may vary by county. Any forms mentioned in this guide may be obtained from the Clerk of Court or online at
http://www.wicourts.gov/forms1/circuit.htm. Please type or complete the forms in black ink.
Introduction
Any eligible resident of Wisconsin who is an adult or minor over 14 may petition the court in the county
where he or she resides to have his or her name confidentially changed where publication of the proposed
name change is not required.
To request a confidential name change, you must use the specific forms listed below. You won’t have to
publish notice of the proposed name change when you request a confidential name change, and the clerk
will make sure the forms are not available to the public. (§ 786.37(4), Wis. Stats.) At the name change
hearing, you will have to prove to the court that publication of the name change hearing could endanger you
and that you are not seeking a name change in order to avoid a debt or conceal a criminal record.
(§ 786.37(4), Wis. Stats.) If the court finds that publication is not required, all records related to the name
change will remain confidential and will not be available to the public. (§ 786.36(2m)(a), Wis. Stats.) If the
court does not make this finding and denies the confidential name change, you will have to file a standard
name change using the standard name change forms to move forward with the name change. The standard
name change forms can be found online at http://www.wicourts.gov/forms1/circuit.htm. All documents
related to the confidential name change request will remain confidential.
If you hold a professional license (other than a license to teach in the public schools) and your name change
is for a reason other than marriage or divorce, you may need the approval of your licensing board or
commission to change your name to a name other than the name on your license. Contact the appropriate
board to learn its requirements.
A person required to register as a sex offender under § 301.45(1g), Wis. Stats., may not change his or her
name. (§ 301.47(2)(a), Wis. Stats.)
1. Fill out a Petition for Confidential Name Change for Adult or Minor 14 or Older form.1 If the
person whose name is proposed to be changed is an adult or a minor age 14 or over, complete
CV-451. The form has step-by-step instructions on the left side.
Once you have filled out the Petition for Confidential Name Change form, you should make at least
two copies of the completed form.
2. Fill out a Notice of Confidential Name Change Hearing form or the Clerk of Court in your county
may complete it for you. Ask your Clerk of Court whether, based on local practice, you need to
complete this form. If so, the form (CV-461) has step-by-step instructions on the left side. Once you
have filled it out, you should make at least two copies of the completed form.
3. Fill out an Order for Confidential Name Change form or the Clerk of Court in your county may
complete it for you. Ask your Clerk of Court whether, based on local practice, you need to complete
this form. If so, the form (CV-471) has step-by-step instructions on the left side. Once you have filled
it out, you should make at least two copies of the completed form.
4. File the Petition for Confidential Name Change for Adult or Minor 14 or Older, Notice of
Confidential Name Change Hearing (if required in your county) and Order for Confidential
Name Change (if required in your county) forms. The original forms and any required copies
1 There is a CV 456 (Petition for Confidential Name Change for Minor Child under 14) form, but Wisconsin law does not address
whether a confidential name change is allowed for minors under 14 years old, so the judge may not allow it.
CV-491, 03/25 Basic Steps for Handling a Confidential Name Change
This form shall not be modified. It may be supplemented with additional material.
Page 2 of 2
must be filed and a fee paid to the Clerk of Court in the county where you are filing your case. Exact
procedures vary locally, but you will be assigned a date and time for the hearing and some of your
copies will be authenticated and returned to you.
You should also ask your Clerk of Court if you need to bring the original or a certified copy of your
birth certificate with you to the hearing. The birth certificate should not be filed with the court, but the
judge may review it as part of their decision-making process.
You also may be asked to complete the Department of Health Services Form, Report of Confidential
Legal Name Change (F-05021C). If the court grants the petitions, the Clerk of Court will sign and
seal the form and send the certified copy to the Wisconsin Vital Records Office. You can get this form
by contacting Vital Records at 608-266-1939.
5. Attend the Name Change Hearing. There is no publication requirement associated with the petition
for a confidential name change, so a hearing will be set as soon as practicable. Be on time and be
polite. Do not get emotional. If instructed by the Clerk of Court, you must have the original or certified
copy of the birth certificate for the judge's review. You may be placed under oath and questioned
about the information on the petition. If your petition is granted, the judge will sign the Order for
Confidential Name Change (CV-471). If your petition is not granted, the judge will complete an Order
Denying Confidential Name Change (CV-476). If the court finds that your name change cannot be
changed confidentially, you may follow the standard name change procedure using CV-450, Petition
for Name Change for Adult or Minor 14 or Older.
6. Complete any post-decision activities. The Clerk of Court will collect a fee from you to record the
name change with the Register of Deeds Office. The Clerk of Court may collect an additional fee for
the state register of vital statistics to issue a copy of the birth certificate, if the Wisconsin birth
certificate is to be changed.