Skip to main content
Scam Alert: Fake DDS Texts and Calls
DDS won’t text or call for fees. Click here for more info.
New DDS Customer Service Center Coming To Oconee County
New center opens Oct 6, 2026 to replace our Athens location.
Effective July 1, 2026, pricing for MVRs will increase.
Click here for more details on the upcoming change.
What forms of payment does the Georgia Department of Driver Services accept?
DDS Customer Service Centers take cash, credit cards, debit cards, Apple Pay, and Google Pay
DDS Online Services and the DDS 2 GO mobile app take only credit or debit cards.
The cards accepted are Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express
Pay fees in Online Services
NOTE : Customers using Online Services may receive a $5.00 Discount for eligible transactions. The discount is not reflected in the fees listed. Free documents are excluded.
Click here to pay fees through Online Services.
Select License/ID Type for Fee and Term Information
Non-Commercial License Fees
Regular Licenses and Permits License Type License Term Fee Note
Regular Driver's License (Class A, B, C, E, F, M) 8 Years $32 Volunteer Firefighters will not incur a fee for a (Class E or F) license.
Learner's Permit (Class CP) 2 Years $10 The $10 permit fee is paid before the test begins. If you fail any part of the test, you will not receive a refund. The permit fee must be paid again before every testing attempt.
Learner's Permit (Class EP and FP) 1 Year $10
Learner's Permit (Class MP) 6 Months $10 Motorcycle Permits allow one renewal only . Knowledge Exam scores expire after one year. If the Skills Test isn’t passed in time, the Knowledge Exam must be retaken.
Provisional Driver's License (Class D) 5 Years $10
Honorary Driver's License 8 Years No Fee
National Guard Driver's License 8 Years No Fee Requires proof of eligibility for each renewal or issuance.
Veterans Driver's License 8 Years No Fee
Commercial License Fees
NOTE: All Commercial (CDL) Licenses require a CDL Application Fee.
Commercial License and Permit Fees License Type License Term Fee Note
CDL License (Class A, B, and C)
8 Years $32 Restricted CDL, Class B is valid for 5 years but limited to the seasonal period.
The Farm Services Related Industries Waiver card will be issued for a continuous 180-day period. Applicants are permitted to get one waiver card in any twelve (12) month period.
CDL Licenses with an H or X endorsement limited to 5 years.
CDL Learner's Permit (Class AP, BP)
On or after July 1, 2021, valid for 365 days $10 The $10 permit fee is required before the test begins. If you fail any part of the test, you will not get a refund. You must pay the permit fee again before every testing attempt.
CDL Application Fee N/A $35
CDL Road Skills Test N/A $50
CDL Endorsements
Term of License w/o Hazmat $5 each All endorsements except Hazmat are valid for the term of the CDL License. Endorsements are automatically renewed with the CDL License without any additional fees.
TSA Background and Fingerprints are required for Hazmat for 1st-time issuance as well as renewals.
Licenses with Hazmat are valid for 5 years from the Threat Assessment date. Applicants must pass a Hazmat knowledge test and TSA Background checks to be renewed.
If Hazmat Endorsements are added during the initial issuance, then no fee applies.
All endorsements added after initial issuance require a one-time $5 Fee.
For-Hire Endorsement Term of License $15
Identification (ID) Card Fees
Fees for Georgia ID, VET ID, etc. License Type License Term Fee
Georgia ID Card 8 Years $32
Voter ID (Note: Must provide proof of valid registration) 8 Years No Fee When Qualified
Honorary ID Card 8 Years No Fee
National Guard ID Card Not Available N/A
Veteran ID Card (combat) 8 Years No Fee
Veteran ID Card (Non-Combat) 8 Years $32
Veteran Handicapped ID Card 6 months (temporary)
4 years No Fee
Handicapped ID Card 8 Years $5
Indigent ID Card (Note: Must present voucher and required documents to receive ID) 8 Years NOTE: Must provide proof of valid voter registration)$5 (May be billable to shelters with agreements with DDS)
Limited Permit and Probationary License Fees
Limited Permits & Probationary Licenses License Type License Term Fee
Limited Permit Up to 1 Year $32
Limited Permit Renewal 1 Year $10
Limited Permit Replacement Equal to Original Term of Permit $20
Ignition Interlock Device Limited Permit
(IDLP)
If customers consented to the state-administered chemical test Required to successfully maintain the ignition interlock for a period of 4 months. OR
If customers DID NOT consent to the state-administered chemical test Required to successfully maintain the ignition interlock for a period of 12 months.
$25
Ignition Interlock Device Limited Permit
(IDLP) Renewal
2 Months $5
Ignition Interlock Device Limited Permit
(IDLP) Restrictions Removal
$100 (Note 1)
Controlled Substance Permit
(after 3rd violation)
Up to 3 Years $25
Habitual Violator Probationary Driver's License (HVPL) Up to 3 Years $210
Habitual Violator Probationary Driver's License Replacement Equal to Original Term of Permit $20
Note 1: This fee is in addition to any reinstatement fees that may be required.
Other Service Fees
Other Service Fees Service Term Fee
Address Change Original Expiration Date Free once per Renewal Period (Note 1)
Gender Change Original Expiration Date $10
Driver's License Replacement (Note 2) Reinstatement Fees and Payment Options
Replacement/Duplicate: Driver's License, Permit, or ID Card
(Excludes Limited Permit and HVPL.)
Original Expiration Date $10
Motor Vehicle Report (MVR) - 3 Year Report N/A $7
Motor Vehicle Report (MVR) - 7 Year Report N/A $9
Motor Vehicle Report (MVR) - Lifetime Report N/A $9
License Renewal - Online and the DDS 2 GO app Varies $5 Discount off Original License Fee
Administrative License Suspension Hearing Request How Do I Submit an ALS Hearing Request
Note 1: Address Change:
Only 1 free name/address change is allowed during the term of your license. Any extra changes during a term may need you to renew and pay the renewal fees.
Note 2: Replacements:
If you request a replacement driver's license/permit/ID card within 150 days of the original date: it will be processed as a renewal
a new term will apply
and new fees will apply.
Microsoft Chatbot
Did you find what you were looking for on this page?
Extra feedback
Send feedback