Skip to Content
Birth Amendments
The Florida Department of Health’s Bureau of Vital Statistics has the authority to correct errors or omissions on a birth record.
Depending on the type of correction and the age of the registrant, documentary evidence may be required to support the correction. If the correction is to the name of a minor child, the signatures of both parents, if listed on the original birth record, are required.
Forms
DH660 Instructions For Amending A Certificate of Birth
DH430 Affidavit of Amendment of Certificate of Live Birth
DH429 Application for Amendment to Florida Birth Record
DH429S Application for Amendment to Florida Birth Record (Spanish)
Fee
Florida law requires a non-refundable amendment processing fee of $20, which includes one certification of the amended record.
Death Amendments
Demographic Amendments: Depending on the type of correction, documentary evidence to support the requested correction may be required.
Forms
DH670 Instructions For Correction of Certificate of Death
DH524 Application for Amendment to Florida Death or Fetal Death Record
DH433 Affidavit of Amendment of Certificate of Death
DH433A Affidavit of Amendment to a Florida Certificate of Fetal Death
Fee
Florida law requires a non-refundable amendment processing fee of $20 which includes one certification of the amended record.
Medical Amendments
To amend the medical certification or cause of death section on the death certificate requires the certifying physician or medical examiner to complete and file the notarized DH434A Affidavit of Amendment to Medical Certification of Death .
Form
DH524 Application For Amendment to Florida Death or Fetal Death Record
Fees
There is no amendment fee associated with a medical amendment; however, if a certification of the amended death record is desired, a fee of $5 for the first copy and $4 for each subsequent copy ordered at the same time is required.
Paternity Acknowledgement
A father’s name may be added to his child’s birth record only in the case where the mother was unmarried at the time of the child’s birth and no father is listed on the birth record.
Notarized signatures of both parents OR two witnesses for each parent (may be the same witnesses) are required. If parents have married and they wish marital status to be amended to show married, a certified copy of the parents’ marriage record is also required.
Forms
DH429 Application for Amendment to Florida Birth Record
DH429S Application for Amend to Florida Birth Record (Spanish)
DH432 Acknowledgment of Paternity
Fee
A non-refundable fee of $20, which includes one certification of the record, is required by Florida law.
Legal Change of Name
If you have had a legal name change in a Florida court, a report of legal change of name will be forwarded to our office by the clerk of the court, usually within 30 days. The birth record will be amended by attaching the change of name report to the original birth record.
If you were born in another state, the clerk of court will provide you with a copy of the name change. You should contact your state of birth regarding their procedures in this matter.
If you had your name legally changed in another state, a certified copy of the legal name change court order must be submitted with the application for Amendment, valid photo identification and fee.
Forms
DH429 Application for Amendment to Florida Birth Record
DH429S Application for Amendment to Florida Birth Record (Spanish)
DH 427 Report of Legal Name Change
Fee
A non-refundable fee of $20 is required for amending the record and includes one certification of the amended record.
Adoption Procedures
If an adoption has occurred, the clerk of the court will forward to our office a report of the adoption within 30 days of the order. Based on this document, a new birth record will be filed for the child.
Forms
DH429 Application for Amendment to Florida Birth Record
DH429S Application for Amendment to Florida Birth Record
DH527 Certified Statement of Final Decree of Adoption
If adopted in Florida but born in another state, the report of adoption received from the clerk of the court will be forwarded to the child’s state of birth. Contact the Bureau of Vital Statistics in the child’s state of birth regarding their requirements in this matter. In matters of parental rights, the DH 5075 form may be needed.
DH5075 Petition for Termination of Parental Rights
Fee
A non-refundable fee of $20 is required for amending the record and includes one certification of the amended record.
If the required fee does not accompany the report of the adoption, the record will be amended and either the parent or attorney will be notified in writing of the amendment and the fee requirement.
Release of Original Birth Certificate
Complete application form DH726 and applicable notarized affidavit(s). Must enclose a photocopy of driver’s license, state identification card, passport, or military identification card.
Adoption Information
Forms
DH726: Adoptee under the age of 18
DH726: Adoptee 18 years of age or older
Fee
A fee of $14 is due for photocopy certification of the sealed birth record.
Foreign Births
The Florida Department of Health’s Bureau of Vital Statistics is able to file Certificates of Foreign Birth for children born in foreign countries to non-US citizens, based on orders of adoption whose judgment occurs in Florida. The court reports a foreign born adoption on the same form, DH527 Certified Statement of Final Decree of Adoption , as used to report an adoption for a child born in Florida.
The certificate of foreign birth shows the adoptive name, the adoptive parents, and will show the true country of birth. The record also bears information regarding the court order, and has a disclaimer regarding the record not being proof of citizenship.
Certificates of foreign birth are not filed for Canadian born children as by mutual agreement those orders are forwarded onto the vital statistics office in the province in which the child was born.
Forms
DH1178 Application for Certificate of Foreign Birth
DH527 Certified Statement of Final Decree of Adoption
Fees
The fee for filing a certificate of foreign birth is $20.
A second copy of the record is $9, and any subsequent copies requested at the same time are $4 each.
Delayed Birth Procedures
Florida law allows for the filing of a delayed birth certificate when no birth certificate was filed within one year of the child’s birth. If the child is not yet one year old, the record may still be registered by contacting the county health department in the county of the child’s birth for assistance in registering the birth.
If the child is over one year of age , the following information applies:
If you have not yet had our records searched for your birth record and wish to do so, submit your request in writing along with the search fee of $9 to:
Bureau of Vital Statistics
P.O. Box 210
Jacksonville, FL 32231-0042
If no record is found, you will be provided with a certified “not found” statement and instructions for filing a delayed birth certificate.
Forms
Forms for filing a delayed birth record are mailed on an individual basis and only after a result of a search of the Florida Department of Health’s Bureau of Vital Statistics’ birth records when it is found that no birth record is on file for the individual.
DH726 Application for a Florida Birth Record
DH726S Application for a Florida Birth Record (Spanish)
Documentary evidence supporting the birth facts is required. The number of documents as well as the age of documents varies depending on the age of the applicant. Such evidence must be in the form of original documents or notarized or certified copies and must show the child’s full name, age or date of birth, place of birth, and the date the original record was established. At least one document must also show the father’s name and the mother’s full maiden name.
Fee
A non-refundable fee of $20 is required by Florida law and will entitle you to one certification of the record, if filed.
Help Us Improve
The Florida Department of Health’s Bureau of Vital Statistics is always looking for ways to improve our services. Have you contacted or visited us? Tell us about your experience!
Share Your Experience
Certificates & Records
Birth Certificates Toggle submenu for Birth Certificates Commemorative Birth Certificates
Putative Father Registry
Death Certificates Toggle submenu for Death Certificates Stillbirths
Fetal Deaths
Nonviable Birth
Divorce or Annulment Certificates
Marriage Certificates Toggle submenu for Marriage Certificates Commemorative Marriage Certificates
Amendments and Corrections
Apostille Certificates
Electronic Birth & Death Registration Toggle submenu for Electronic Birth & Death Registration Electronic Reporting Access Request
Order Certificates from VitalChek
Publications, Forms, and Applications
Service Satisfaction Survey
Vital Statistics
904-359-6900
Email Us