House Substitute for SENATE BILL No. 244
AN ACT concerning identification of biological sex; requiring the designation of multiple-
occupancy private spaces in public buildings for use by only one sex; imposing
criminal and civil penalties for violations; providing a cause of action for individuals
aggrieved by an invasion of privacy or other harm when accessing a multiple-
occupancy private space; amending the women's bill of rights; defining the term
"gender" to mean biological sex at birth for purposes of statutory construction;
directing the director of the division of vehicles to invalidate and reissue driver's
licenses when necessary to correct the gender identification on such licenses;
directing the office of vital statistics to invalidate and reissue birth certificates when
necessary to correct the sex identification on such certificates; removing the
definition of "gender" from the help not harm act; amending K.S.A. 8-234a and
K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 8-243, 65-28,137 and 77-207 and repealing the existing sections.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:
New Section 1. (a) As used in this section:
(1) "Female" means the same as defined in K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 77-
207, and amendments thereto.
(2) "Governmental entity" means the same as defined in K.S.A.
75-6102, and amendments thereto.
(3) "Male" means the same as defined in K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 77-
207, and amendments thereto.
(4) "Multiple-occupancy private space" means a facility designed
or designated for simultaneous use by more than one individual and in
which an individual may be in a state of undress in the presence of
another individual, regardless of whether the facility provides curtains
or partial walls for privacy. "Multiple-occupancy private space"
includes, but is not limited to, a restroom, locker room, changing room
or shower room.
(5) "Public building" means a building owned or leased by a
governmental entity. "Public building" does not include a building
owned by a governmental entity that is leased to a private entity,
whether for profit or not for profit, if the lease agreement for such
building between the governmental entity and the private entity was in
force and effect on the effective date of this act.
(6) "Sex" means the same as defined in K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 77-
207, and amendments thereto.
(7) "Single-occupancy private space" means a facility designed or
designated for use by only one individual at a time and in which the
individual may be in a state of undress. "Single-occupancy private
space" includes, but is not limited to:
(A) A single toilet restroom with a locking door that is designed or
designated as unisex; or
(B) a family restroom or changing room.
(b) (1) The governing body, or chief administrative officer if no
governing body exists, of each public building shall designate each
multiple-occupancy private space in such building for use only by
individuals of one sex. The governing body, or chief administrative
officer if no governing body exists, shall take every reasonable step to
ensure an individual does not enter a multiple-occupancy private space
that is designated for use only by individuals of the opposite sex.
(2) This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit a governing
body, or chief administrative officer if no governing body exists, from:
(A) Adopting a policy in accordance with the Americans with
disabilities act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq., for individuals who
require assistance when using a multiple-occupancy private space; or
(B) establishing a single-occupancy private space.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (b) and (g):
(1) An individual may enter a multiple-occupancy private space
designated for use only by individuals of the opposite sex:
(A) For custodial purposes;
(B) for maintenance or inspection purposes;
(C) to render medical or other emergency assistance;
H Sub for SENATE BILL No. 244—page 2
(D) to accompany and provide assistance to an individual who
needs assistance using the facility;
(E) for law enforcement purposes;
(F) to render assistance necessary in preventing a serious threat to
proper order or safety; or
(G) to provide coaching or athletic training during athletic events,
provided such individual is a member of the coaching or athletic
training staff and such individual ensures that no individual of the
opposite sex is in a state of undress prior to entering such multiple-
occupancy private space; and
(2) a child who is under nine years of age may enter a multiple-
occupancy private space designated for use only by individuals of the
opposite sex if accompanied by an individual caring for such child.
(d) Any governmental entity that violates this section is liable for
a civil penalty of $25,000 for the first violation and $125,000 for each
subsequent violation. Each day of a continuing violation of this section
constitutes a separate violation.
(e) (1) A person may file a complaint with the attorney general
against a governmental entity for a violation of this section if:
(A) Such person provides such governmental entity written notice
describing the violation; and
(B) such governing body, or chief administrative officer if no
governing body exists, of such governmental entity does not cure the
violation before the end of the third business day after the date the
written notice is received.
(2) A complaint filed under this subsection shall include a copy of
the written notice provided to the governmental entity and the
complainant's affidavit describing the violation.
(f) (1) Before bringing an action against a governmental entity for
a violation of this section, the attorney general shall investigate the
complaint filed under subsection (e) to determine whether legal action
is warranted.
(2) The governmental entity subject to the complaint shall provide
to the attorney general any information the attorney general requests in
connection with the investigation of the complaint, including, but not
limited to:
(A) Supporting documents related to the complaint; and
(B) a statement on whether the governmental entity has complied
or intends to comply with this section.
(3) If the attorney general determines that legal action is
warranted, the attorney general shall provide written notice to such
governmental entity that:
(A) Describes the violation and location of the multiple-
occupancy private space found to be in violation;
(B) the amount of the proposed penalty for the violation; and
(C) the penalty may be avoided by curing the violation on or
before the 15th day after the date the attorney general's notice is
received.
(4) If a violation is not cured on or before the 15th day after the
date the notice is received, the attorney general may bring an action to
assess the civil penalty provided in subsection (d).
(g) (1) It shall be a violation of this section for an individual to
enter a multiple-occupancy private space designated for use only by
individuals of the opposite sex, except as permitted under subsection
(b) or (c). Upon receipt of a complaint that an individual entered a
multiple-occupancy private space in violation of this section, the
governing body, or chief administrative officer if no governing body
exists, shall investigate and, upon a finding that such individual
violated this section, shall provide written notice of such violation to
H Sub for SENATE BILL No. 244—page 3
such individual. Such notice shall include:
(A) The date and location of the multiple-occupancy private space
where the violation occurred;
(B) a statement that repeated violations may result in fines or
criminal charges; and
(C) the procedure to administratively appeal the finding that such
individual violated this section.
(2) Any individual who commits a second violation after being
found to have violated this section pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be
liable for a civil penalty of $1,000. An action to assess such penalty
may be brought by the attorney general if the violation occurred in a
state building or by the county or district attorney for the county where
the violation occurred if the violation occurred in a municipal building.
(3) Any individual who commits a third or subsequent violation
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.
(h) (1) Any individual who, while accessing a multiple-occupancy
private space designated for use only by such individual's sex, is
aggrieved by the invasion of such individual's personal privacy or is
otherwise harmed by a violation of this section by an individual of the
opposite sex may bring a cause of action against such individual of the
opposite sex. In bringing such action, the individual may seek either
actual damages or liquidated damages in the amount of $1,000, as well
as declaratory and injunctive relief.
(2) It shall be an affirmative defense to any claim brought
pursuant to this subsection that the defendant did not know that the
multiple-occupancy private space was designated for use only by
individuals of the opposite sex to that of the defendant.
(3) All civil actions brought pursuant to this subsection shall be
commenced within two years after the violation occurred. An
individual bringing any such action who prevails shall recover
reasonable attorney fees and costs.
(i) Any civil penalty collected by the attorney general pursuant to
this section shall be deposited to the credit of the crime victims
compensation fund established under K.S.A. 74-7317, and amendments
thereto. Any civil penalty collected by a county or district attorney
pursuant to this section shall be deposited to the credit of the general
fund of the county where such action was brought.
New Sec. 2. (a) Any birth certificate issued prior to July 1, 2026,
that identifies the sex of the individual named on such certificate in a
manner that is contrary to the definition of such term as defined in
K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 77-207, and amendments thereto, shall be invalid.
(b) The state registrar shall correct any birth certificate records
that identify the sex of the individual named in such record in a manner
that is contrary to the definition of such term as defined in K.S.A. 2025
Supp. 77-207, and amendments thereto.
(c) This section shall be a part of and supplemental to the uniform
vital statistics act.
Sec. 3. K.S.A. 8-234a is hereby amended to read as follows: 8-
234a. (a) As used in the motor vehicle drivers' license act, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them herein:
(1) "Drivers' license examiner" or "examiner" means a drivers'
license examiner of the division of vehicles or any person whom the
director of vehicles has authorized, pursuant to the authority granted by
this act, to accept applications for drivers' licenses and administer the
examinations required for the issuance or renewal of drivers' licenses.
Any county treasurer authorized to accept applications for drivers'
licenses or administer drivers' license examinations shall be deemed to
be acting as an agent of the state of Kansas;
H Sub for SENATE BILL No. 244—page 4
(2) "nonresident" means every person who is not a resident of this
state. For the purposes of the motor vehicle drivers' license act any
person who owns, rents or leases real estate in Kansas as such person's
residence and engages in a trade, business or profession within Kansas
or registers to vote in Kansas or enrolls such person's children in a
school in this state or purchases Kansas registration for a motor vehicle,
shall be deemed a resident of the state of Kansas 90 days after the
conditions stated in this subsection commence, except that military
personnel on active duty and their military dependents who are
residents of another state, shall not be considered residents of the state
of Kansas for the purpose of this act;
(3) "patrol" means the state highway patrol;
(4) "address of principal residence" means: (A) The place where a
person makes his or her permanent principal home; (B) place where a
person resides, has an intention to remain and where they intend to
return following an absence; or (C) place of habitation to which,
whenever the person is absent, the person intends to return. If a person
eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where the person
sleeps shall be considered the person's address of principal residence;
(5) "state" means a state of the United States, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and
the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands;
(6) "wireless communication device" means any wireless
electronic communication device that provides for voice or data
communication between two or more parties, including, but not limited
to, a mobile or cellular telephone, a text messaging device, a personal
digital assistant that sends or receives messages, an audio-video player
that sends or receives messages or a laptop computer; and
(7) "religious organization" means any organization, church, body
of communicants, or group, gathered in common membership for
mutual support and edification in piety, worship and religious
observances, or a society of individuals united for religious purposes at
a definite place and which religious organization maintains an
established place of worship within this state and has a regular schedule
of services or meetings at least on a weekly basis and has been
determined to be organized and created as a bona fide religious
organization; and
(8) "gender" means the same as defined in K.S.A. 77-207, and
amendments thereto.
(b) As used in this act, the words and phrases defined by the
sections in article 14 of chapter 8 of the Kansas Statutes Annotated, and
amendments thereto, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them therein, unless a different meaning is ascribed to any such word or
phrase by subsection (a) of this section.
Sec. 4. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 8-243 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 8-243. (a) Upon payment of the required fee, the division shall
issue to every applicant qualifying under the provisions of this act the
driver's license as applied for by the applicant. Such license shall bear
the class or classes of motor vehicles that the licensee is entitled to
drive, a distinguishing number assigned to the licensee, the full legal
name, date of birth, gender, address of principal residence and a brief
description of the licensee, either: (1) A digital color image or
photograph; or (2) a laser-engraved photograph of the licensee, a
facsimile of the signature of the licensee and the statement provided for
in subsection (b). No driver's license shall be valid until it has been
signed by the licensee. All drivers' licenses issued to persons under the
age of 21 years shall be readily distinguishable from licenses issued to
persons age 21 years or older. In addition, all drivers' licenses issued to
persons under the age of 18 years shall also be readily distinguishable
H Sub for SENATE BILL No. 244—page 5
from licenses issued to persons age 18 years or older. The secretary of
revenue shall implement a vertical format to make drivers' licenses
issued to persons under the age of 21 more readily distinguishable.
Except as otherwise provided, no driver's license issued by the division
shall be valid until either: (1) A digital color image or photograph; or
(2) a laser-engraved photograph of such licensee has been taken and
verified before being placed on the driver's license. The secretary of
revenue shall prescribe a fee of not more than $8 and upon the payment
of such fee, the division shall cause either: (1) A digital color image or
photograph; or (2) a laser-engraved photograph of such applicant to be
placed on the driver's license. Upon payment of such fee prescribed by
the secretary of revenue, plus payment of the fee required by K.S.A. 8-
246, and amendments thereto, for issuance of a new license, the
division shall issue to such licensee a new license containing either: (1)
A digital color image or photograph; or (2) a laser-engraved photograph
of such licensee. A driver's license that does not contain the principal
address as required may be issued to persons who are program
participants pursuant to K.S.A. 75-455, and amendments thereto, upon
payment of the fee required by K.S.A. 8-246, and amendments thereto.
All Kansas drivers' licenses and identification cards shall have physical
security features designed to prevent tampering, counterfeiting or
duplication of the document for fraudulent purposes. The secretary of
revenue shall incorporate common machine-readable technology into
all Kansas drivers' licenses and identification cards.
(b) A Kansas driver's license issued to any person 16 years of age
or older who indicated on the person's application that the person
wished to make a gift of all or any part of the body of the licensee in
accordance with the revised uniform anatomical gift act, K.S.A. 65-
3220 through 65-3244, and amendments thereto, shall have the word
"Donor" placed on the front of the licensee's driver's license.
(c) Any person who is deaf or hard of hearing may request that the
division issue to such person a driver's license which is readily
distinguishable from drivers' licenses issued to other drivers and upon
such request the division shall issue such license. Drivers' licenses
issued to persons who are deaf or hard of hearing and under the age of
21 years shall be readily distinguishable from drivers' licenses issued to
persons who are deaf or hard of hearing and 21 years of age or older.
Upon satisfaction of subsection (a), the division shall issue a receipt of
application permitting the operation of a vehicle consistent with the
requested class, if there are no other restrictions or limitations, pending
the division's verification of the information and production of a
driver's license.
(d) A driver's license issued to a person required to be registered
under K.S.A. 22-4901 et seq., and amendments thereto, shall be
assigned a distinguishing number by the division which will readily
indicate to law enforcement officers that such person is a registered
offender. The division shall develop a numbering system to implement
the provisions of this subsection.
(e) (1) Any person who is a veteran may request that the division
issue to such person a driver's license that shall include the designation
"VETERAN" displayed on the front of the driver's license at a location
to be determined by the secretary of revenue. In order to receive a
license described in this subsection, the veteran shall provide a copy of
the veteran's DD form 214, NGB form 22 or equivalent discharge
document showing character of service as honorable or general under
honorable conditions.
(2) As used in this subsection, "veteran" means a person who
served in the active military, naval, air or space service, including those
groups and individuals listed under 38 C.F.R. § 3.7, and who was
H Sub for SENATE BILL No. 244—page 6
discharged or released therefrom under an honorable discharge or a
general discharge under honorable conditions.
(3) The director of vehicles may adopt any rules and regulations
necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection.
(f) (1) Any person who submits satisfactory proof to the director
of vehicles, on a form provided by the director, that such person needs
assistance with cognition, including, but not limited to, persons with
autism spectrum disorder, may request that the division issue to such
person a driver's license, that shall note such impairment on the driver's
license at a location to be determined by the secretary of revenue.
(2) Satisfactory proof that a person needs assistance with
cognition shall include a statement from a person licensed to practice
the healing arts in any state, an advanced practice registered nurse
licensed under K.S.A. 65-1131, and amendments thereto, a licensed
physician assistant or a person clinically licensed by the Kansas
behavioral sciences regulatory board certifying that such person needs
assistance with cognition.
(g) (1) Any driver's license issued prior to July 1, 2026, that
identifies the gender of the individual named on such license in a
manner that is contrary to the definition of such term as defined in
K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 77-207, and amendments thereto, shall be invalid.
(2) The director shall correct any driver's license records that
identify the gender of the individual named in such record in a manner
that is contrary to the definition of such term as defined in K.S.A. 2025
Supp. 77-207, and amendments thereto. The director shall send written
notice to each such individual notifying such individual that such
license is invalid and to surrender such license to the division of
vehicles. Upon the surrender of any such license, the director shall
issue a new driver's license to such individual with the correct gender
identification for such individual.
Sec. 5. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 65-28,137 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 65-28,137. (a) The provisions of K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 65-28,137
through 65-28,142, and amendments thereto, shall be known and may
be cited as the help not harm act.
(b) As used in this act:
(1) "Child" means an individual less than 18 years of age.
(2) "Female" means an individual who is a member of the female
sex.
(3) "Gender" means the psychological, behavioral, social and
cultural aspects of being male or female.
(4) "Gender dysphoria" is the diagnosis of gender dysphoria in the
fifth edition of the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders.
(5)(4) "Healthcare provider" means an individual who is licensed,
certified or otherwise authorized by the laws of this state to administer
healthcare services in the ordinary course of the practice of such
individual's profession.
(6)(5) "Male" means an individual who is a member of the male
sex.
(7)(6) "Perceived sex" is an individual's internal sense of such
individual's sex.
(8)(7) "Perceived gender" is an individual's internal sense of such
individual's gender.
(9)(8) "Sex" means the biological indication of male and female in
the context of reproductive potential or capacity, including sex
chromosomes, naturally occurring sex hormones, gonads and
nonambiguous internal and external genitalia present at birth, without
regard to an individual's psychological, chosen or subjective experience
of gender.
(10)(9) "Social transitioning" means acts other than medical or
H Sub for SENATE BILL No. 244—page 7
surgical interventions that are undertaken for the purpose of presenting
as a member of the opposite sex, including the changing of an
individual's preferred pronouns or manner of dress.
Sec. 6. K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 77-207 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 77-207. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of state law to the
contrary, with respect to the application of an individual's biological
sex pursuant to any state law or rules and regulations, the following
shall apply:
(1) An individual's "sex" or "gender" means such individual's
biological sex, either male or female, at birth;
(2) a "female" is an individual whose biological reproductive
system is developed to produce ova, and a "male" is an individual
whose biological reproductive system is developed to fertilize the ova
of a female;
(3) the terms "woman" and "girl" refer to human females, and the
terms "man" and "boy" refer to human males;
(4) the term "mother" means a parent of the female sex, and the
term "father" means a parent of the male sex;
(5) with respect to biological sex, the term "equal" does not mean
"same" or "identical";
(6) with respect to biological sex, separate accommodations are
not inherently unequal; and
(7) an individual born with a medically verifiable diagnosis of
"disorder/differences in sex development" shall be provided legal
protections and accommodations afforded under the Americans with
disabilities act and applicable Kansas statutes.
(b) Laws and rules and regulations that distinguish between the
sexes are subject to intermediate constitutional scrutiny. Intermediate
constitutional scrutiny forbids unfair discrimination against similarly
situated male and female individuals but allows the law to distinguish
between the sexes where such distinctions are substantially related to
important governmental objectives. Notwithstanding any provision of
state law to the contrary, distinctions between the sexes with respect to
athletics, prisons or other detention facilities, domestic violence
shelters, rape crisis centers, locker rooms, restrooms and other areas
where biology, safety or privacy are implicated that result in separate
accommodations are substantially related to the important
governmental objectives of protecting the health, safety and privacy of
individuals in such circumstances.
(c) Any school district, or public school thereof, and any state
agency, department or office or political subdivision that collects vital
statistics for the purpose of complying with anti-discrimination laws or
for the purpose of gathering accurate public health, crime, economic or
other data shall only identify each individual who is part of the
collected data set as either male or female at birth.
New Sec. 7. Sections 1 through 6, and amendments thereto, are
declared severable. Any provision of sections 1 through 6, and
amendments thereto, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance that is held to be unconstitutional or invalid shall not
affect the validity of any remaining provisions of sections 1 through 6,
and amendments thereto, or the applicability of such provisions to any
person or circumstance.
Sec. 8. K.S.A. 8-234a and K.S.A. 2025 Supp. 8-243, 65-28,137
and 77-207 are hereby repealed.
H Sub for SENATE BILL No. 244—page 8
Sec. 9. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
publication in the Kansas register.
I hereby certify that the above BILL originated in the
SENATE, and passed that body
__________________________
SENATE concurred in
HOUSE amendments _______________________
_________________________
President of the Senate.
_________________________
Secretary of the Senate.
Passed the HOUSE
as amended _________________________
_________________________
Speaker of the House.
_________________________
Chief Clerk of the House.
APPROVED _____________________________
_________________________
Governor.