C.R.S.
Section 13-15-101
Petition
proceedings
applicability
Mentioned in
How to Guide to Adult Name Changes
Colorado Judicial Branch, June 24, 2022
"Basic information and step-by-step guide"
Bibliographic info
(1)(a)(I) Every person desiring to change the person’s own name may present a petition to that effect, verified by affidavit, to the district or county court in the county of the petitioner’s residence, except as otherwise provided in subsection (1)(a.5) of this section. The petition must include:
(A)
The petitioner’s full name;
(B)
The new name desired; and
(C)
A concise statement of the reason for the name change.
(II)
If the petitioner is over fourteen years of age, the petition shall also include the results of a certified, fingerprint-based criminal history record check conducted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this subsection (1) within ninety days prior to the date of the filing of the petition.
(III)
If the petitioner is under nineteen years of age, the petition shall also include the caption of any proceeding in which a court has ordered child support, allocation of parental responsibilities, or parenting time regarding the petitioner.
(a.5)
If the petitioner is under nineteen years of age and is the subject of an action concerning child support, allocation of parental responsibilities, parenting time, or dependency and neglect, then the petition for name change must be filed in the court having jurisdiction over the action concerning child support, allocation of parental responsibilities, parenting time, or dependency and neglect. If the petitioner is under twenty-one years of age and a participating youth in Colorado’s foster youth in transition program pursuant to part 3 of article 7 of title 19 , then the petition for name change may be filed in the court having jurisdiction over the action concerning the foster youth in transition case.
(b)
The fingerprint-based criminal history check shall include arrests, conviction records, any criminal dispositions reflected in the Colorado bureau of investigation and federal bureau of investigation records, and fingerprint processing by the federal bureau of investigation and the Colorado bureau of investigation. The petitioner shall be responsible for providing certified copies of any criminal dispositions that are not reflected in the Colorado bureau of investigation or federal bureau of investigation records and any other dispositions which are unknown.
(c)
The petitioner shall be responsible for supplying fingerprints to the Colorado bureau of investigation and to the federal bureau of investigation and for obtaining the fingerprint-based criminal history record checks. The petitioner shall also be responsible for the cost of such checks.
(1.5)
Unless the petitioner has shown good cause why the publication provisions of section 13-15-102 should not apply, the court shall order the petitioner to publish notice as provided in section 13-15-102 and file proof of the publication with the court.
(2)
Intentionally left blank —Ed.
(a)
Upon receipt of proof of publication or upon an order of the court stating that publication is not required, the court, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection (2), shall order the name change to be made and spread upon the records of the court in proper form if the court is satisfied that the desired change would be proper and not detrimental to the interests of any other person.
(b)
The court shall not grant a petition for a name change if the court finds the petitioner was previously convicted of a felony or adjudicated a juvenile delinquent for an offense that would constitute a felony if committed by an adult in this state or any other state or under federal law. If the certified, fingerprint-based criminal history check filed with the petition reflects a criminal charge for which there is no disposition shown, the court may grant the name change after affirmation in open court by the petitioner, or submission of a signed affidavit by the petitioner, stating he or she has not been convicted of a felony in this state or any other state or under federal law.
(c)(Deleted by amendment, L. 2005, p. 20, § 1, effective February 23, 2005.)(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of this section, the court may grant a petition for a change of name of a petitioner who was previously convicted of a felony in this state or any other state or adjudicated a juvenile delinquent for an offense that would constitute a felony if committed by an adult in this state or any other state or under federal law if the court finds that the petitioner must have a legal name change in order to be issued in that name a driver’s license or identification card from the department of revenue and if all of the following requirements are met:
(a)
The petitioner meets all of the requirements of subsections (1) and (1.5) of this section and paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of this section;
(b)
The proposed name change is to a name under which the petitioner was convicted or adjudicated; except that, for good cause, the court may allow a change to a name other than a name under which the petitioner was convicted or adjudicated;
(c)
Prior to filing the petition, the name change applicant:
(I)
Intentionally left blank —Ed.
(A)
Submits his or her fingerprints to the Colorado bureau of investigation and the federal bureau of investigation for purposes of obtaining a fingerprint-based criminal history records check along with a written request to add his or her proposed name as an alias to the name change applicant’s criminal history record.
(B)
The Colorado bureau of investigation is authorized to add an alias to a name change applicant’s criminal history record upon request.
(II)
Intentionally left blank —Ed.
(A)
Notifies the district attorney’s office in any district in which the applicant was convicted of a felony that he or she is requesting a name change pursuant to this subsection (3).
(B)
If the district attorney’s office has a record of any victim of the applicant’s crime, the district attorney’s office shall send notice of the proposed name change to the victim.
(III)
If, at the time the petition is filed, the applicant is in custody of the department of corrections, under an order for probation or community corrections, or incarcerated in a county jail, the applicant provides written notice to the supervising agency that he or she is requesting a change of name under this section; and
(IV)
Provides the court with a copy of his or her criminal history record from both the Colorado bureau of investigation and the federal bureau of investigation and the criminal history report from the Colorado bureau of investigation reflects the addition of the proposed changed name as an alias; and
(d)
The court finds that:
(I)
The name change is not for the purpose of fraud, to avoid the consequences of a criminal conviction, or to facilitate a criminal activity; and
(II)
The desired name change would be proper and not detrimental to the interests of any other person.
(4)
The department of revenue shall not issue a driver’s license or an identification card in the new name of a name change applicant unless the name change applicant submits a court order changing the applicant’s name pursuant to this section.
(5)
Intentionally left blank —Ed.
(a)
If a petitioner is seeking a name change to harmonize name discrepancies necessary to be issued an identification card, the petitioner:
(I)
If the petitioner attempted to obtain a fingerprint-based criminal history record check and results were inconclusive or unreadable, may submit, in lieu of a fingerprint-based criminal history record check, a name-based criminal history record check with all previously used names using the records of both the federal and Colorado bureaus of investigation and an attestation under penalty of perjury that the petitioner has not been convicted of a felony; and
(II)
Need not publish the name change under section 13-15-102 .
(b)
To qualify for the simplified name change process in this subsection (5), the petitioner must:
(I)
Sign an affidavit that the purpose of the name change is to obtain an identification card issued by the department of revenue and that the desired name change would be proper and not detrimental to the interests of any other person; and
(II)
Be at least seventy years of age.
(6)
The provisions of this section do not apply to a motion filed pursuant to section 14-10-120.2 , C.R.S., requesting restoration of a prior full name after entry of a decree of dissolution or legal separation.
Source:
Section 13-15-101 — Petition - proceedings - applicability , https://leg.&shy;colorado.&shy;gov/sites/default/files/images/olls/crs2024-title-13.&shy;pdf (accessed May 26, 2025).
13–15–101
Petition - proceedings - applicability
13–15–102
Publication of change
Current through Fall 2025
§ 13-15-101. Petition's source at
colorado​.gov
Blank Outline Levels
&times;
The legislature occasionally skips outline levels.
For example:
(3) A person may apply [...]
(4)(a) A person petitioning for relief [...]
In this example, (3) , (4) ,
and (4)(a) are all outline levels, but
(4) was
omitted by its authors. It's only implied. This presents an
interesting challenge when laying out the text. We've
decided to display a blank section with this note, in order
to aide readability.
Trust but verify.
Here is the original source for section 13-15-101
Do you have an opinion about this solution?
Drop us a line.
Close
C.R.S. Timeline
This online publication of the C.R.S. is up to date through
Fall 2025.
Here's how the legislature
describes the process
The Colorado Revised Statutes are published annually. Each edition incorporates all laws
enacted by the General Assembly through the legislative session referenced in the edition.
The 2023 Edition includes all laws enacted through the Fall of 2024,
including special sessions.
The 2025 Edition will be available online in early 2025.
Close