THISTL
THISTL THISTL THISTL
THISTL
THISTL THISTL THISTL
Home
About
Workshops Credit Wellness
Homebuyer Education
Economic Wellness
Assistance
Advocacy
Trans Housing Research
"We’re entitled to be loved, and seek happiness, and share that with the people that we care about.”
Miss Major Griffin-Gracy
THISTL mutual aid applications will open again in winter &#x27;26
Open exclusively to trans and gender nonconforming (TGNC) adults. Please read the below sections carefully to maximize your odds of receiving assistance. We are currently a small team and appreciate your patience as we work on your application.
important information
WHY?:
Housing insecurity disproportionately impacts Trans individuals, particularly BIPOC and disabled community members, who often face systemic barriers to safe and stable housing. According to our 2023 report, nearly 40% of respondents reported living below the federal poverty line, and 58% of respondents live with a disability or identify as disabled.
Our report highlights the challenges TGNC individuals face, including being forced out of family homes and encountering significant barriers to accessing emergency shelters and safe rental housing due to discrimination and a lack of resources. Learn more in our full report at https://thi-stl.org/Advocacy .
WHO?:
We distribute funds based on need and in alignment with our racial equity pledge: at least 60% of total aid serves Black individuals, reflecting St. Louis demographics.
For transparency, we posted anonymous race and gender identity demographics of our mutual aid recipients from the previous year, and you can see them at https://thi-stl.org/Assistance .
WHEN?:
Please check back soon for our '26/'27 Assistance Timeline.
WHERE?: (*funds will not be distributed on site - these are application only events*)
We will primarily be collecting applications IN PERSON so we can connect with community members and answer questions in real time, assist those who may need help completing their applications, and prevent fraudulent submissions. If you do not have access to transportation to attend an application event or are otherwise not available during our scheduled times, please email us at contact@thi-stl.org explaining your situation and needs. If you need a virtual application, we will need to schedule a virtual meeting or call where we can fill out your application together. Virtual applications will take place the last week of February (the 23rd-27th).
Click here for public transit options (if you need bus passes try contacting MTUG @ info@stlmetrotrans.org )
South City:
...
Central St. Louis:
...
North City:
...
Additional events will be announced on our socials and updated on our website. Please check back in later if you are not able to attend any of the above events.
HOW?:
Once the application period is closed and we have had time to review the submissions, recipients will be chosen based on need and in alignment with our racial equity pledge. Funds will be distributed by paper check - either sent to your landlord/mortgage holder directly or sent to the address specified in your application.
Thank you to Our Partners For hosting these events:
Frequently Asked Questions
Please reach us at contact@thi-stl.org if you cannot find an answer to your question.
How much assistance can I apply for? Currently, we are able to let folks apply for up to 2 months of assistance total : the current month's rent as well as up to one month's back rent. This year we can offer up to $250/month for rental assistance.
Can I apply for assistance if I am [insert gender identity]? Our mutual aid funds are specifically intended to benefit those who self identify as transgender or gender nonconforming. We do not ask for "proof" of your identity or transness, if you feel that this is a community you are a part of we encourage you to apply. If you are not trans or gender nonconforming, please refrain from submitting an application and look elsewhere at other resources that are not put aside for marginalized groups.
Why can&#x27;t I apply online? We know that online applications may be more accessible for some and we may be able to make case by case accommodations, but our applications are going to be primarily collected in person this year so we can connect with the community and prevent spam submissions. If you will not be able to attend an in person event and need accommodations, please email us at contact@thi-stl.org so we can get you set up with a virtual meeting during the last week of February where will complete your application together.
When will funds be distributed? We will be collecting applications through __(check back soon)___. After applications close and we have had time to review and select recipients, we will have checks mailed in a timely manner. As we are a small team and typically receive a large number of applications, please give us time to ensure everything is done properly and equitably.
How many people will get assistance? We don't have a hard limit, it will depend on a few factors such as: how much money we end up having available, how many folks apply, and how much assistance each of those applicants asks for. We aim to help as many as we can with the limited funds we have available.
If I don&#x27;t get chosen, can I apply again next year? Yes! All applicants who would like to be considered for our 2027 mutual aid assistance are encouraged to apply when that time comes.
Do you need more urgent assistance? We realize that not everyone can afford to wait for funds to be distributed and may have immediate needs that require assistance. THISTL currently operates with a small team and does not have case management available at this time, but if you are facing housing instability or other hardships, consider looking at the following resources:
https://www.tenantstransformingstl.org/work
TTGSTL operates a Renters Hotline where they connect people to resources and can also document a person's need for housing which can be used to push for more resources from the city. Have questions about your lease? Struggling with a landlord who isn’t addressing maintenance issues? Facing eviction? The hotline is here to help. Call with any housing-related concerns, and they will work with you to find solutions and connect you with the right resources.
314-252-8356 Operates Mon-Fri 1PM - 6PM and Sat 11AM-4PM
https://lsem.org/housing-law/
Legal Services of Eastern Missouri advances justice through legal representation, education and supportive services.
https://www.archcitydefenders.org/our-impact/housing-and-homelessness/
Provides holistic legal representation and social work support to community members experiencing homelessness and housing insecurity, in order to help them protect their rights and gain or maintain housing.
For all sorts of resources, get in contact with the St. Louis Queer Support & Healing (SQSH) . They operate a local resource guide named SQSHBook which has many different resources listed by category. The guide catalogs 1,200+ St. Louis resources, consolidates vetting information from queer-led organizations, and connects users to LGBTQIA-affirming services.
For emotional support and assistance in going over these resources, call SQSH's Peer Support Line open Friday through Monday, 1:00-7:00 PM CT Local: 314-380-7774 | Toll-Free: 844-785-7774
Other organizations that can provide direct support, linkage to care, and other basic needs include the Metro Trans Umbrella Group , Vivent Health , and the Community Wellness Project .
Transparency Report: Mutual Aid Recipients 2024-2025
Transparency Report: Mutual Aid Recipients 2023-2024
Trans Housing Research
Powered by
This website uses cookies.
We use cookies to analyze website traffic and optimize your website experience. By accepting our use of cookies, your data will be aggregated with all other user data.
Accept