Top Bar &#8212; Vietnamese
Thông dịch viên đã cung cấp. Tất cả các thông tin liên lạc được bảo mật. Dịch vụ là miễn phí.
Top Bar &#8212; Farsi
مترجمان ارائه شده است همه ارتباطات محرمانه هستند. خدمات رایگان هستند
Top Bar &#8212; Arabic
المترجمون المقدمة. جميع الاتصالات سرية. الخدمات مجانية.
Top Bar &#8212; Bosnian
Prevodioci su obezbjedjeni. Razgovori se drze u tajnosti. Sve nase usluge su besplatne.
Top Bar &#8212; Spanish
Intérpretes disponible. Todas las comunicaciones son confidenciales. Los servicios son gratuitos.
Facebook
Instagram
Linkedin
Youtube
800.444.0514
Interpreters provided.
All communications are confidential.
Services are Free.
Volunteer
Get Help Now
Donate Now
Our Services
WHO WE SERVE
We provide free civil legal assistance, advice and information for low-income people and the elderly in 21 eastern Missouri counties. Clients must meet financial eligibility based on household incomes or meet other qualifications for consultation or representation. Information and training services are free and open to the public. Interpreters are available for the hearing impaired and accessibility accommodations are available, as needed.
WHAT WE DO
Legal Services’ staff includes attorneys, paralegals, social workers, support staff and volunteers.
We remove the legal barriers to help low-income families overcome poverty and violence, maintain or obtain independence, and to achieve self-sufficiency.
Services include:
Representation in courts and administrative hearings;
Providing legal advice or referral information;
Assisting with community-based economic development;
Giving legal education through community workshops and other materials;
Offering professional training for attorneys, volunteers and others.
Health &#038; Education Justice Initiative
Provides information about students&#8217; rights and advocates for students facing unfair discipline.
Neighborhood Advocacy
Helping local residents and community organizations with vacant, abandoned and blighted housing in the City of St. Louis.
Marketplace Assistance Program
helping families access health insurance
Union Office
Providing a full range of legal services in Franklin, Warren, and Washington Counties and family law cases in Lincoln County.
Public Benefits Program
Helps with applications and appeals for public benefit programs, including Medicaid, TANF, Food Stamps, Social Security and Medicare.
Legal Advocacy for Adults with Mental Illness
Assists adults with serious mental illness in a variety of legal matters.
Immigration Law Program
Assists immigrants with residency and citizenship and also serves victims of Human Trafficking.
Housing Law Program
Landlord/tenant issues, foreclosure and other housing problems.
Lasting Solutions Family Law Program
Helps survivors of domestic violence and their families achieve safety and stability.
Youth and Family Advocacy Program
Provides legal assistance to homeless and at-risk youth and families in St. Louis County, connecting them to vital resources.
Hannibal Office
Serving clients in northeast Missouri.
Advocates for Older Adults Program
Represents clients 60 years or older.
Consumer Law Program
Represents clients with creditor/debtor problems and victims of deceptive or predatory lending.
Connecting Kids to Coverage
Helps uninsured children, families and adults enroll in health insurance plans.
Community Economic Development &#8211; Microenterprise Program
Provides legal assistance and education for low-income entrepreneurs and community nonprofits.
Children’s Legal Alliance Program
Provides advocacy for children with special education needs and homeless children.
Advocates for Family Health Program
Helps pregnant women and families with children with Medicaid managed care.
Translate »
Stay in touch. Join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from our team. We hate SPAM. Your email address will never be shared or sold.
Subscribe
You have Successfully Subscribed!
Share This
Facebook
LinkedIn