Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 1 of 17
Civil-Law
Name Change - Adult
Updated February 8, 2021
How to Ask the Court to Change Your Name - Adults Only
(For Use in the Superior Court of New Jersey - Law Division - Civil Part)
Who Should Use This Packet?
If you are over the age of 18, you may use this packet to ask for a court order to change your
name. However, if you are requesting a name change due to a change in your marital status
please note the following:
• If you want to change your name as a result of a recent marriage, you do not need to
use this packet and may apply for a new social security card free of charge with the
Social Security Administration office.
• Similarly, if you wish to resume your maiden name as the result of a divorce, a motion may
be filed and heard in the Family Part as part of a pending or post-judgment dissolution
action. If your judgment of divorce stipulates that you may resume your maiden name,
you do not need to use this packet, and may apply for a new social security card free of
charge with the Social Security Administration office.
Do not use this packet if:
• You are requesting a name change for your child under the age of 18; instead use the
packet entitled “How to Ask the Court to Change a Name in the Chancery Division,
Family Part.”
• You want to correct a mistake on a birth certificate, marriage license, civil union or
domestic partnership record (for example, incorrect or misspelled name or misstatement
of gender). You should contact the State Registrar of Vital Statistics directly
regarding these changes. (Vital Records in New Jersey)
Note: These materials have been prepared by the New Jersey Administrative Office of the
Courts for use by self-represented litigants. The guides, instructions, and forms will be
periodically updated as necessary to reflect current New Jersey statutes and court rules. The
most recent version of the forms will be available at the county courthouse or at njcourts.gov.
However, you are ultimately responsible for the content of your court papers.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 2 of 17
Completed forms are to be submitted to the county where you are filing your case.
Applications can be submitted via Judiciary Electronic Document System (JEDS), the
mail, or delivery (attorneys must file electronically via eCourts). Documents will be filed
as of the date they are received. A list of Superior Court Offices is provided at the
customer counter or at njcourts.gov.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 3 of 17
Things to Think About Before You Represent Yourself in Court
Try to Get a Lawyer
The court system can be confusing and it is a good idea to get a lawyer if you can. The law, the
proofs necessary to present your case, and the procedural rules governing cases in the Law
Division, Civil Part are complex. Since valuable claims or potentially heavy judgments may be
at stake, most litigants appearing in the Law Division, Civil Part have a lawyer. If you are
being sued, please contact your insurance company to see if they might provide a lawyer for
you. Most likely your opponent will be represented by a lawyer. It is recommended that you
make every effort to obtain the assistance of a lawyer. If you cannot afford a lawyer, you may
contact the legal services program in your county to see if you qualify for free legal services.
Their telephone number can be found online or in your local yellow pages under “Legal Aid” or
“Legal Services.”
If you do not qualify for free legal services and need help in locating an attorney, you can
contact the bar association in your county. That number can also be found in your local yellow
pages. Most county bar associations have a Lawyer Referral Service. The County Bar Lawyer
Referral Service can supply you with the names of attorneys in your area willing to handle your
particular type of case and will sometimes consult with you at a reduced fee. There are also
organizations of minority lawyers throughout New Jersey, as well as organizations of lawyers
who handle specialized types of cases. Ask your county court staff for a list of lawyer referral
services that include these organizations.
If you decide to proceed without an attorney, these materials explain the procedures that must
be followed to have your papers properly filed and considered by the court. These materials do
not provide information on the law governing your claims or defenses; information on how to
conduct pretrial discovery; information on alternative dispute resolution procedures, such as
arbitration or mediation, that may be available or required in your case; information on the
kinds of evidence you need to prove your claims or defense at trial; or information on other
procedural and evidentiary rules governing civil law suits.
What You Should Expect If You Represent Yourself
While you have the right to represent yourself in court, you should not expect special treatment,
help or attention from the court. The following is a list of some things court staff can and
cannot do for you. Please read it carefully before asking court staff for help.
• We can explain and answer questions about how the court works.
• We can tell you what the requirements are to have your case considered by the court.
• We can give you some information from your case file.
• We can provide you with samples of court forms that are available.
• We can provide you with guidance on how to fill out forms.
• We can usually answer questions about court deadlines.
• We cannot give you legal advice. Only your lawyer can give you legal advice.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 4 of 17
• We cannot tell you whether or not you should bring your case to court.
• We cannot give you an opinion about what will happen if you bring your case to court.
• We cannot recommend a lawyer, but we can provide you with the telephone number of a
local lawyer referral service.
• We cannot talk to the judge for you about what will happen in your case.
• We cannot let you talk to the judge outside of court.
• We cannot change an order issued by a judge.
Keep Copies of All Papers
Make and keep copies of all completed forms and documents related to your case.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 5 of 17
Overview
The following is a brief overview of the process for having your name changed by a court. The
details follow. There are three basic steps that you must take to have your name changed by the
court:
1. Complete the attached forms and a Civil Case Information Statement and send them to the
court with a $250 filing fee. (Only one fee is required to change the names of multiple adult
family members. If any family members are under the age of 18, you must use the packet
entitled “How to Ask the Court to Change a Name in the Chancery Division, Family
Part” and file in the Family Division.)
a. The forms are contained in this packet and include: Form A (Verified Complaint);
Form A1 (Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change); Form B
(Order Fixing Date of Hearing); Form C (Final Judgment); Form C1 (Final Judgment
Addendum); and
b. Civil Case Information Statement is available on the Judiciary website at:
njcourts.gov.
2. The court will return a filed copy of the Verified Complaint, Certification of Confidential
Information for Name Change and the Order Fixing Date of Hearing, with a docket number.
Send the Order Fixing Date of Hearing (with the docket number) to the Director of the
Division of Criminal Justice via certified and regular mail at least 20 days before the
hearing. If you have criminal charges pending, you must also send a copy of these
documents (with the docket number) to the prosecuting office (Attorney General or county
prosecutor). You will have to provide the court with proof that the appropriate parties have
been notified of your intent to change your name.
3. At the time of the hearing, you must present proof of your current name. After the hearing,
the court will issue the signed Final Judgment and Final Judgment Addendum. You will
have to send certified copies of the Final Judgment and Final Judgment Addendum to the
Department of Treasury and the Registrar of Vital Statistics. If you have a driver’s license,
you will also present certified copies of the Final Judgment and Final Judgment Addendum
in person to the Motor Vehicle Commission.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 6 of 17
Definitions of Words Used in This Packet
Certification - A certification is a written statement you make when you file your papers with
the court in which you state that all the information contained in the papers is true to the best
of your knowledge.
Civil Case Information Statement (CIS) The CIS is a form that summarizes your case for
the court. Court rules require that a CIS be filed with a verified complaint. The self-
represented version of the CIS which is to be used with this packet can be found on our Self-
Help Center.
Docket Number - A docket number is the number the court assigns to your case so that it
may be identified and located easily. Once you have a docket number, you must include it on
all your communications with the court.
File - To file means to give the appropriate, completed and signed forms and fee to the court
to begin the court’s consideration of your case.
Final Judgment - The final judgment is a document signed by the judge which orders the
name to be changed.
Order Fixing Date of Hearing - An order fixing the date of hearing is a signed paper from
the judge indicating the date when you must come to court on your case. This order will
contain your docket number and will be returned to you by the court.
Proof of Mailing - Proof of mailing is the green card you get back from the Post Office that
proves that the material you sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, was received by
the person to whom you sent it.
Verified Complaint - A verified complaint is a document in which you tell the court the facts
of your case and state what relief you want the court to give you. You certify that the
information is true to the best of your knowledge.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 7 of 17
The numbered steps listed below tell you what forms you will need to fill out and what to do with them. Each
form should be typed or printed clearly on 8 ½” x 11” white paper only. Forms may not be filed on a different
size or color paper.
Steps to Obtain a Court Order to Change Your Name
STEP 1: Fill out the Verified Complaint
and the Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change. (Forms A and A1)
The Verified Complaint (Form A) tells the court what your name is, what you want to change it
to, and why you want it changed. If you have ever been convicted of a crime, or if there are
charges pending against you, you must include this information in your Verified Complaint.
You must sign the certification which states that the information in the complaint is true to the
best of your knowledge. The Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change (Form
A1), which contains confidential information, such as your social security number, must also be
completed and signed.
STEP 2: Fill out the Order Fixing Date of Hearing, Final Judgment and Final Judgment
Addendum (Forms B, C and C1)
Enter the information requested. Note that there are places on the Order Fixing Date of
Hearing, Final Judgment and Final Judgment Addendum that the court will complete.
STEP 3: Fill out the Civil Case Information Statement (CIS)
This form summarizes your case for the court. The case type number for a name change is 151.
The self-represented version of the CIS which is to be used with this packet can be found on our
Self-Help Center.
STEP 4: Make a check or money order payable to Treasurer, State of New Jersey in the
amount of $250.00
This is the fee for filing your papers.
Note: If you are changing the names of multiple adult family members, the $250.00 fee
covers all name change applications. However, if any family members are under the age
of 18, you must use the packet entitled “How to Ask the Court to Change a Name in the
Chancery Division, Family Part.”
STEP 5: Check your completed forms and make copies
Check your forms and make sure they are complete. Remove all instruction sheets. Make sure
you have signed all the forms wherever necessary. If you are mailing or delivering your
paperwork to the court, you must make two copies of each form. One copy will be sent to the
court; the other is for your records.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 8 of 17
Checklist - In Step 6 you will be directed to file your documents with the court. The following
checklist will help ensure your package is complete:
The original of each of the forms you filled out: Verified Complaint (Form A),
Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change (Form A1), Order Fixing
Date of Hearing (Form B), Final Judgment (Form C), Final Judgment Addendum
(Form C1) and CIS.
One copy of each of these forms: Verified Complaint, Certification of Confidential
Information for Name Change, Order Fixing Date of Hearing, Final Judgment, Final
Judgment Addendum and the CIS.
The filing fee in the amount of $250. It must be a check or money order payable to
the Treasurer, State of New Jersey.
A stamped envelope addressed to yourself so that the court will be able to return the
forms to you. Be sure to include adequate postage.
STEP 6: File your papers with the court
You may file through Judiciary Electronic Document Submission (JEDS), through mail, or by
delivery. If you are filing by mail or delivery, send to the court the original and one copy of all
the forms: Verified Complaint (Form A), Certification of Confidential Information for Name
Change (Form A1), Order Fixing Date of Hearing (Form B), Final Judgment (Form C), Final
Judgment Addendum (Form C1) and the CIS along with a self-addressed stamped envelope
and the filing fee. The court address can be found on the Judiciary’s website, njcourts.gov. If
you mail the papers, we recommend that you use certified mail, return receipt requested.
STEP 7: Review copies returned from court
The court will return copies of the Verified Complaint, Certification of Confidential
Information for Name Change and Order Fixing Date of Hearing to you. Once you receive
them, there will be a docket number written on all the copies. The docket number is very
important because it identifies your case. It also lets the court know how to find your case.
You must use the docket number on all future papers you send to the court about your case.
The court will fill in the date on the Order Fixing Date of Hearing. That is the day you will
appear before the judge to get the Final Judgment.
If You Do Not Have Pending Criminal or Delinquent Charges in New Jersey, skip to Step
9
STEP 8: Notify the Attorney General or County Prosecutor of your Application for a
Name Change
If you have criminal charges pending against you in New Jersey, you must send a copy of the
Verified Complaint, Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change and Order
Fixing Date of Hearing by regular mail and certified mail, return receipt requested to the
Prosecutor of the county where the matter is being heard at least 20 days before the hearing. If
the charges were brought by the Office of the Attorney General, you must send a copy of the
Verified Complaint, Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change and Order
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 9 of 17
Fixing Date of Hearing to the Director of the Division of Criminal Justice as set forth in Step
9.
STEP 9: Notify the State of your Application for a Name Change
You must send a copy of the Order Fixing Date of Hearing by regular mail and certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the Director of the Division of Criminal Justice in Trenton, New
Jersey, at least 20 days before the hearing. Mail a copy to:
Director, Division of Criminal Justice
ATTN: Records and Identification Section
R. J. Hughes Justice Complex
25 Market Street
P. O. Box 085
Trenton, NJ 08625-0085
Note: If you have criminal charges pending against you in New Jersey, you must also include a
copy of the Verified Complaint and Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change.
STEP 10: Complete Proof of Mailing (Form D) and send to court
After you have mailed the required copies of the Verified Complaint, Certification of
Confidential Information for Name Change and/or signed Order Fixing Date for Hearing, the
post office will send you a green card (called a certified mail receipt) for each recipient that
shows the mail was delivered. Once you get it back, fill out the form called Proof of Mailing
(Form D) and check each entity to whom you sent a copy of the Verified Complaint,
Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change and/or the signed Order Fixing Date
of Hearing. Be sure to attach the green certified mail receipt(s) to the Proof of Mailing. Send
the Proof of Mailing to the court. Keep a copy of it for your files.
STEP 11: Appear in court on the date set by the judge for your hearing
Be sure to bring with you proof of your current name.
STEP 12: Order Certified Copies with a Raised Seal of the Final Judgment with the
Final Judgment Addendum
After the hearing, the court will record the original Final Judgment and Final Judgment
Addendum signed by the judge. Certified copies can be requested through JEDS. You will
need a certified copy with a raised seal of the Final Judgment, with the Final Judgment
Addendum attached, to be sent to both the Department of Treasury (Step 13) and the Registrar
of Vital Statistics (Step 14). If you are a licensed driver, a registered owner of a vehicle, or
possess a handicapped or non-driver identification card, you must also present a certified copy
with a raised seal of the Final Judgment, with the Final Judgment Addendum attached, in
person at any Motor Vehicle Agency or Regional Service Center (Step 15). The fee for each
certified copy with a raised seal is $25.00.
Name Change - Adult
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 10 of 17
STEP 13: Send a copy of the certified Final Judgment with the Final Judgment
Addendum to the Department of Treasury
You must send a certified copy with a raised seal of the Final Judgment, with the Final
Judgment Addendum attached, to the Department of Treasury within 45 days after the date of
the Judgment. You must include a check or money order payable to the Treasurer, State of
New Jersey in the amount of $50.
Mail the certified copy with a raised seal of the Final Judgment, with the Final Judgment
Addendum attached, with the check or money order and a stamped self-addressed envelope to:
Department of Treasury
Division of Revenue
Judgment Name Change Unit
P. O. Box 453
Trenton, NJ 08646
STEP 14: Notify the Registrar of Vital Statistics of the State
You must send a certified copy with a raised seal of the Final Judgment, with the Final
Judgment Addendum attached, to the Registrar of Vital Statistics of the State in which you were
born. The Office of the Registrar is located in the capital city of the State in which you were
born. Check to see if the office requires a fee. If you were born in New Jersey, the address for
this office is:
Bureau of Vital Statistics
Attn: Vital Records Modifications Unit
P. O. Box 370
Trenton, NJ 08625
In New Jersey, there is a $2.00 fee to process the legal name change. There is also a $25.00 fee
if you want to receive a corrected birth certificate, marriage license, civil union or domestic
partnership record. Checks or money orders should be made payable to the Treasurer, State of
New Jersey. There is a $2.00 fee for each additional copy of the same certificate.
STEP 15: Notify the Motor Vehicles Commission
If you are a licensed driver, a registered owner of a vehicle, or possesses a handicapped or non-
driver identification card, you must present the Final Judgment, with the Final Judgment
Addendum, in person at any Motor Vehicle Agency or Regional Service Center within two
weeks after the effective date set forth in the Final Judgment.
NOTE: The effective date is not the date of the hearing or the date the Final Judgment
was signed. The effective date is the date you may begin using your assumed name.
Additional information is available at njmvc.gov regarding the list of acceptable documents to
satisfy the 6 points of identification.
Form A
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 11 of 17
Superior Court of New Jersey
Name Law Division
County
Street Address
Docket No.
City, State, Zip (To be filled in by the court)
Email Address
Telephone Number
In the Matter of the Application of:
Civil Action
Verified Complaint Including
Certification of Plaintiff for Name
Change
Your Name
To Assume the Name of:
Name you wish to assume
The plaintiff, , whose place of residence
is , in the City of ,
County of , in the State of New Jersey says:
1. I am the Plaintiff in this matter.
2. My current legal name is .
3. My social security number can be found in the attached Certification of Confidential
Information for Name Change.
4. I was born on .
5. I have since birth been identified by the following names: (first, middle, last)
6. I (check one) ☐ have/☐ have not been married.
Form A
Revised 03/21/2016, CN 10551 - Attachment E page 12 of 17
7. I (check one) ☐ have/ ☐ have never been convicted of a crime, and have no criminal
charges pending against me, except: (please supply county, municipality, nature, date of
crime and/or pending charges)
8. This application (check one) ☐ is/ ☐ is not being made with the intent to avoid creditors
or criminal prosecution or for other fraudulent purpose.
9. I (check one) ☐ have/ ☐ have no unsatisfied judgments of record, or suits pending against
me, except: (enter any recorded judgments or pending suits)
10. I request this name change for the following reasons:
11. I (check one) ☐ have/ ☐ have not made any previous applications to assume another
name.
12. I (check one) ☐ do/ ☐ do not have any pending applications for a name change in any
other court or jurisdiction to the best of my knowledge and belief, except: (enter the state,
county and docket number(s) of any pending applications)
13. I understand that I must advise the court if there are any changes in the facts stated in this
Verified Complaint.
WHEREFORE, plaintiff demands judgment pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2A:52-1 to -4.
Signature of Plaintiff
Certification
I certify that the foregoing statements made by me are true. I am aware that if any of the
foregoing statements made by me are willfully false, I am subject to punishment.
Dated Signature of Plaintiff
Form A-1
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 13 of 17
Superior Court of New Jersey
Name Law Division
County
Street Address
Docket No.
City, State, Zip (To be filled in by the court)
Email Address
Telephone Number
In the Matter of the Application of:
Civil Action
Certification of Confidential
Information for Name Change
Your Name
To Assume the Name of:
Name you wish to assume
In support of my application for a change of name, I, ,
state the following:
1. I am the Plaintiff in this matter and currently reside at
, in the City of ,
County of , in the State of New Jersey.
2. My social security number is .
I certify that the foregoing statements made by me are true. I am aware that if any of the
foregoing statements made by me are willfully false, I am subject to punishment.
Dated Signature of Plaintiff
Form B
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 14 of 17
Superior Court of New Jersey
Name Law Division
County
Street Address
Docket No.
City, State, Zip (To be filled in by the court)
Email Address
Telephone Number
In the Matter of the Application of:
Civil Action
Order Fixing Date of Hearing
Your Name
To Assume the Name of:
Name you wish to assume
Application being made to the Court by , for a
judgment authorizing the applicant to assume another name and for the entry of an order fixing
a date for the hearing of such application,
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE THE COURT WILL COMPLETE
IT IS ON THIS day of , 20 , ORDERED that the
day of , 20 , at a.m., or as soon thereafter as the matter can be
heard, at the courthouse in the City of , County of
, State of New Jersey, be fixed as the time and place for the hearing of such
application and of any objections that may be made thereto.
J.S.C.
NOTE: A copy of the Order Fixing Date of Hearing must be served on the Director of the
Division of Criminal Justice. If there are criminal charges pending, copies of the Verified
Complaint, Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change and Order Fixing Date
of Hearing must be sent via regular mail and certified mail and served on the County Prosecutor
and/or the Office of the Attorney General.
Form C
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 15 of 17
Superior Court of New Jersey
Name Law Division
County
Street Address
Docket No.
City, State, Zip (To be filled in by the court)
Email Address
Telephone Number
In the Matter of the Application of:
Civil Action
Final Judgment
Your Name
To Assume the Name of:
Name you wish to assume
, having made application to this Court by duly
verified complaint for a judgment authorizing the applicant to assume the name of
, and it appearing to the Court that all the
provisions of N.J.S.A. 2A:52-1-4 and the New Jersey Rules of Court having been complied
with:
IT IS ON THIS day of , 20 , ORDERED and ADJUDGED
(leave blank for the court to complete)
that , who was born on , and whose
social security number is contained in the attached Final Judgment Addendum, be and hereby is
authorized to assume the name of ,
(name you wish to assume)
effective , (NOTE: This is the date you may begin using your assumed name)
(leave blank for the court to complete)
and
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE THE COURT WILL COMPLETE
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that within forty-five days after entry of Judgment, a
certified copy of this Final Judgment, with the Final Judgment Addendum attached, must be
sent to the Department of Treasury pursuant to the provisions of the Statute and Rules in such
case made and provided.
Dated J.S.C.
Form C-1
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 16 of 17
Final Judgment Addendum
Pursuant to the Final Judgment dated ,
(leave blank for the court to complete)
, whose social security number is ,
is authorized to assume the name of .
This Final Judgment Addendum shall not be made public in any form.
Form D
Revised Form Promulgated via AJ Memo 02/08/2021, CN 10551 page 17 of 17
Superior Court of New Jersey
Name Law Division
County
Street Address
Docket No.
City, State, Zip (To be filled in by the court)
Email Address
Telephone Number
In the Matter of the Application of:
Civil Action
Proof of Mailing
Your Name
To Assume the Name of:
Name you wish to assume
A. Check the appropriate box(es), below:
☐ On , I, the undersigned, mailed a copy of the Order Fixing Date of Hearing
in accordance with the New Jersey Rules of Court to the Division of Criminal Justice of
New Jersey, via certified mail, return receipt requested.
OR
☐ On , I, the undersigned, mailed a copy of the Verified Complaint for
Change of Name, Certification of Confidential Information for Name Change and Order
Fixing Date of Hearing in accordance with the New Jersey Rules of Court to (check all
that apply):
☐ the Division of Criminal Justice of New Jersey, via certified mail, return receipt
requested;
☐ the Prosecutor of County, via regular mail and certified mail,
return receipt requested.
B. Attached are the green return mail receipt(s) for (check all that apply):
☐ the Division of Criminal Justice of New Jersey
☐ the Prosecutor of County
I certify that the foregoing statements made by me are true. I am aware that if any of the
foregoing statements made by me are willfully false, I am subject to punishment.
Dated Signature