Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Family Court
Court Information, Roster and Forms
There is a $150 filing fee to start any case in Family Court.
Family Court does not have generic forms to give you for divorce, separate maintenance, child custody or adoptions.
You must seek legal counsel or you may go to the USC Law Library to look up what documents are required to file these type actions.
Family Court does not offer legal advice. We suggest you contact an attorney. We may be able to offer you limited assistance with some situations, such as, visitation issues or the enforcement of a child support order.
Family Court Calendar
Family Court Forms
Protection from Harm
If you feel the need for protection in domestic matters, come to the Family Court Office and request to file Domestic Abuse paperwork. A Judge may issue a restraining order on the offending party.
We also recommend that you see a representative from Sistercare for assistance. They have an office located in the Family Court building.
Family Court
Jeanette McBride is the Richland County Clerk of Court for civil, criminal and family cases.
Phone
803-576-3320
Fax
803-576-3347
Location
1701 Main St.
1st Floor West Wing
Columbia, SC 29201
Mailing Address
Richland County Family Court
P.O. Box 192
Columbia, SC 29202
In This Section
Support Payments
Child Advocates
Share Facebook
Email
Print
Back to top
Close
Find a Service
Business Updates
Update the County if your business activities, name, address or ownership have changed.
Visitors
Richland County has the attractions and hospitality you’re sure to love.
Purchase Order Conditions
Terms and conditions for Richland County purchase orders.
Information Technology
The backbone of the County’s digital infrastructure, developing secure, efficient, and innovative technology services for residents and employees.
Pet License
A pet license identifies and protects your dog or cat if they get lost and signals it is vaccinated against rabies.
Lost and Found Pets
Take these steps to bring pets back home.
Stray Cats
Learn how you can help control the community cat population.
Spay/Neuter Voucher
Learn about spay/neuter vouchers available for pets and Trap Neuter Return (TNR) programs.
When a Pet Dies
Know the options available for burying or removing deceased pets.
Fire Inspection
Review of fire plans for compliance with County and state regulations.
Emergency Management
Find steps to plan and prepare for disasters, and sign up receive alerts.
Fire Inspections
Review of fire plans for compliance with County and state regulations.
Fire Marshal
Protecting lives and property through fire safety education and enforcement of fire and safety codes.
Inspections
Understand inspections and requirements for Richland County.
Courts and Judicial System
Ensuring justice and public safety in Richland County through civil, criminal, family, and probate legal proceedings.
Public Defender
Provides legal defense to individuals charged with crimes who cannot afford to hire an attorney.
Solicitor
Chief prosecutor of the Fifth Circuit handling criminal cases on behalf of the State of South Carolina for Richland and Kershaw Counties.
Civil Court
Resolves disputes between people, businesses, or organizations.
Magistrate Forms
Court forms for Magistrate Court from South Carolina Judicial Branch.
Know Where It Goes
Common items and where to recycle or dispose properly.
Pet Laws and Help
Learn the rules for pets and how to handle common situations.
Roadside Cleanup
Community clean sweeps and anti-litter enforcement.
Commercial Pet Breeder Permit
A permit to ensure pet breeding businesses are in a suitable location and pass inspection.
Common Pleas Forms
Court forms for Common Pleas from South Carolina Judicial Branch.
Master-in-Equity Court Rosters
Child Advocates
Court-appointed advocates for children through Family Court and beyond.
Land and Buildings
Understand how values are assessed for land and buildings.
Roads and Drainage
Maintaining County roads and storm drain systems.
Bond Court
Determines whether a person arrested for a crime can be released before trial and under what conditions.
Building Permits
Understand permitting steps for homeowners and contractors in Richland County.
Property Maintenance
Share the location of a neglected, unsafe or abandoned home or building.
Plan Review
Understand the plan review process for Richland County.
Commercial Inspection
Schedule building inspections in the correct order to avoid delays.
Residential Inspection
Schedule home inspections in the correct order to avoid delays.
Stay Up To Date
Sign up for the County's weekly newsletter!
Columbia-Richland Fire Careers
Learn about firefighter positions with the Columbia-Richland Fire Department.
Sheriff's Department Careers
Learn about careers and internships with the Richland County Sheriff's Department.
Events
Find upcoming public meetings and events based on your interests.
Ordinances
View codified ordinances and non-codified ordinances.
Get Involved
Attend events and meetings, or apply to serve in your community.
Elected Offices
Learn about Richland County officials, their roles, and contact details.
Coroner
Investigates deaths that are sudden, unexpected, or unattended to determine cause and manner of death.
Surrender or Rehome a Pet
Tips to help find a new home for a pet.
Vector Control
Providing treatments and public education on insects that can spread diseases to humans.
Animals
Get connected to lost and found pet resources, report a cat or dog concern, and obtain a County pet license to reflect current vaccinations.
Alvin S. Glenn Detention Center
Part of the criminal justice system, this is where people are held after being arrested in Richland County.
Transportation Penny
Provided funding for hundreds of neighborhood improvement projects, including road widenings, intersection upgrades, dirt road pavings, sidewalks, bikeways, greenways and more.
Operational Services
Safeguarding public facilities for departments to serve residents, businesses, and visitors efficiently.
Treasurer
Collecting taxes, maintaining bank accounts, investing funds, and maintaining trust with efficient and helpful service.
Small Local Business Enterprise Certification (SLBE)
Qualify to bid on Richland County contracts for construction, services, and goods and appear in our directory.
Finances
Explore budgets, tax reports, and financial transparency resources.
Disclaimer
Review the legal disclaimer for the website.
Privacy
Review the privacy statement for the website.
Business Taxes
Mobile Home Setup
Understand the requirements for registering or relocating mobile homes in Richland County.
Subdivision Plan Review
Ensure subdivision plans meet code requirements.
Commercial Plan Review
Ensure commercial plans meet code requirements.
Emergency Services
Providing professional and cost effective emergency and public safety planning, response and recovery programs for County residents.
Business
Understand business license and business tax requirements, plus small business certification and support.
Engineering
Oversight, maintenance and enhancements of transportation and infrastructure systems.
Permits
Explore types of permitting and requirements for Richland County.
Public Works
Providing for your safety, health and welfare as you interface with public infrastructure.
Legislative Delegation and Veterans Affairs
Uniting elected leaders and Veterans Affairs to serve and strengthen resources for our veterans and their dependents.
New Development
Guiding responsible growth across Richland County.
Vendor Registration
Register to bid and receive notifications of Richland County opportunities.
Upcoming Solicitations
View upcoming opportunities to bid on Richland County projects.
Current Solicitations
View active opportunities to bid on Richland County projects.
Transportation
Information about roads, drainage, stormwater, and Jim Hamilton-LB Owens airport.
Risk Management
Identifying, assessing, and managing risks across all County operations.
Register of Deeds
Recording and maintaining real estate records and other land-related documents for public access.
Columbia Area Development Partnership
Driving high-impact economic growth in Richland County through new industry and workforce investments.
Affordable Housing Development
Investing in the development, rehabilitation, and preservation of affordable housing in unincorporated areas of Richland County.
Building Permitting and Inspections
Protecting communities by ensuring homes, businesses, and public spaces are safe and up to code.
Finance
Maintaining the fiscal integrity of the County’s financial records, issuing payments, producing reports, and performing audits.
Administration
County Administration oversees the day-to-day operations to serve the public and carry out the policies set by County Council.
Utilities
Behind the scenes 24/7, every day of the year to ensure citizens have clean drinking water and safe, reliable sanitation services.
Fair Housing
View Richland County information about fair housing.
Business Personal Property Tax
Recording Fees
View recording fees by document type for Register of Deeds.
Become a Friend of RSWCD
Fund local conservation efforts as a Richland Soil and Water Conservation District Friend.
Land Development
Details for developers about our land development processes.
General Sessions Forms
Court forms for General Sessions from South Carolina Judicial Branch.
Court Calendar
View upcoming court dates and schedules for all case types.
Building Codes Board of Appeals
Hears and decides on appeals to the decisions of the Building or Fire Official.
East Richland Public Service Commission
Oversees functions of constructing, operating, maintaining and financing a sanitary sewage collection and treatment system throughout the district.
Solicitor
Serves as the County’s chief prosecutor, responsible for prosecuting criminal cases and overseeing diversion programs.
Small Business Hub
Find guidance for your small business to grow and discover new opportunities.
Auditor
Applying tax rates, ensuring rates are correctly applied and maintaining public records on local taxes.
Curbside Pickup
Learn how to set up curbside service and what's accepted for both recycling and garbage.
Hospitality Tax Information
Hospitality tax details and total sales tax rate in different jurisdictions for different types of purchases.
Mailing Address Change
Change the mailing address for a home, building or land record.
Water or Sewer Service
Apply for water or sewer service via email, fax, by mail or in person.
Historic Columbia Foundation
Operates and manages two historic properties.
Ombudsman
Your personal guide to County services. Reach out to find answers and get assistance.
Support Payments
How to establish, pay, or check the status of Family Court payments.
Trash and Recycling
Learn what items go where for curbside and drop-off centers.
Drop-Off Centers
Residents may use the drop-off garbage and recycling centers free of charge.
Employee Benefits
Review the comprehensive benefits package for employees.
Probate Judge
Handles matters such as wills, estates, guardianships, conservatorships, and marriage licenses.
Richland County Bailey Bill
Special property tax assessments for rehabilitation of historic buildings.
Organization
Understand County departments and how services are structured.
Performing Arts Center Board
Sets policy, priorities and rates for the Ira and Nancy Koger Center for the Arts.
Richland County Recreation Commission
Delivers quality recreation programs in order to better promote health and improve the quality of life in Richland County.
Nulla Bona Committee
Decides which taxes are non-collectable and should be deleted from the tax rolls.
Grants and Community Outreach
Empowering Richland County by securing and managing grants that drive sustainable growth, strengthen communities, and support vital services.
Community Development Mailing List
Sign up to receive emails from Richland County Community Development regarding grant opportunities and information.
Small Claims
A division of Magistrate Court that resolves disputes involving $7,500 or less.
Taxes
Find information on property, motor vehicle, and business taxes, including online payment options and tax-related forms.
Rent Conservation Equipment
Equipment is available for rent in Richland County and the Twenty-five Mile Creek Watershed.
Historical Marker Program
Understand the steps to propose an historical marker.
Protect Your Land
Landowners can protect their land through conservation easements
Enrich: African American History Tour
Explore African American landmarks and special sites in Richland County.
Richland County Ag + Art Tour
Small Business Resources
Explore our local community partnerships.
Assessor
Valuing and listing all real property for tax purposes and maintaining property ownership records.
Business License
Get the forms and learn the steps for a new business license application for Richland County.
Business Service Center
Helping businesses navigate the local licensing process and meet County requirements for hospitality and accommodation taxes.
Court Appointed Special Advocates
Assisting families and advocating for children through Family Court matters and beyond.
Public Safety Careers
Explore jobs dedicated to protecting the health, safety, and well-being of the public.
Clerk of Court
Manages court records and oversees the administration of court cases, including civil, criminal, and family court matters.
General Sessions
A division of Circuit Court that handles felony and serious misdemeanor criminal cases.
Criminal Court
Handles cases where someone is accused of breaking the law, from minor offenses to serious crimes.
Family Court
Handles legal matters involving families, such as divorce, child custody, child support, adoption, and juvenile issues.
Conservation
Learn about conservation and protection efforts for our area's natural, cultural and historical resources.
Emergency Medical Services
One of the busiest and most highly respected emergency medical services response teams in South Carolina.
Midlands Regional Convention Center Authority
Engages in all aspects and activities related to the Convention Center.
Internal Audit Committee
Reviews all areas of County operations which County funds are levied, collected, expended, or otherwise used.
Application
Neighborhood Enrichment Grant application.
Plans and Reports
View the plans for public input and reports regarding the strategic use of Federal funds.
License Renewal
Renew your annual business license online, by mail, or in person.
Hours and Closures
View business hours, parking information, and holiday closings.
Food Service Establishments
Understand the requirements for food service establishments connected to Richland County sanitary sewer systems.
Elections Public Records Request
Request public records related to voter registration and elections.
Magistrates
View Magistrate Court Judges by location and court information.
Commercial Utilities
Understand the steps required for commercial utilities projects.
Americans with Disabilities Act Notice
Review the Americans with Disabilities Act Notice.
Strategic Plan
Track progress on strategic planning and performance management goals.
Aircraft
Understand how taxes are calculated for aircraft.
Zoning
Assists residents, developers, and business owners with information about land use and zoning classifications.
Foreclosure Sales
Review Master-in-Equity information regarding foreclosure sales.
Traffic Court
Handles citations and tickets for driving violations.
2026 Court Updates
Review the Master-in-Equity 2026 Court updates.
Master-in-Equity Procedures
Review Master-in-Equity procedures.
Master-in-Equity Fees
Review Master-in-Equity fees.
Judge Lawrence Order of Reference Checklist
Review the Master-in-Equity Order of Reference checklist.
Economic Development Committee
Works to assist new companies considering locating in Richland County and existing companies considering expanding operations.
Development and Services Committee
Meets regarding the operational matters, economic development, functions and activities of Public Works and Engineering.
Business Service Center Appeals Board
Hears appeals on actions related to County business licenses.
Master-in-Equity
A relatively quick and inexpensive means of litigation resolution for civil, non-jury matters over $7,500.
Treasurer
Collects and distributes property taxes and manages the County’s financial assets.
Voter Outreach
Learn about voter education services available for local organizations.
Music Festival Commission
Oversees the execution of music festivals in Richland County.
Library Board of Trustees
Oversees and guides the long-term strategies for the ongoing success of Richland Library.
Report an Issue
Not sure where to turn? The Richland County Ombudsman's Office is your one-stop contact for answers, requests and problem-solving.
Sheriff
Enforces the law and provides public safety services including criminal investigations and patrols.
Tax Payment Plan
Request a monthly payment plan to manage your property tax bill.
Mapping and Records
Access County property data and maps and update information if needed.
Conservation Plans and Projects
Learn about our ongoing conservation projects and how you can get involved.
Commitments
Learn about involuntary commitments for mental health or substance use.
Guardians and Conservators
Procedures for petitioning for conservator and/or guardian for an incapacitated adult or application for conservator for a minor.
Estate Records
Access Probate Court records information in person, by mail and online.
Marriage Licenses
Apply for a marriage license, or request a certified copy of your completed license.
Courts & Safety
Ensuring justice and public safety in Richland County through civil, criminal, family, and probate legal proceedings.
Road Maintenance Fees
View the total revenue collected for Richland County road maintenance by fiscal year.
Early and Absentee Voting
Learn about early voting and qualifications for absentee voting.
Community Development
Administering grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to improve low-income neighborhoods.
Community Relations Council
Works to make the Midlands a better place to live and work for all residents
Hospitality Tax Advisory Committee
Reviews applications and makes recommendations regarding the allocation and distribution of the County Promotions portion of hospitality tax funds.
Government
View local laws, elected officials and the many opportunities to participate in Richland County Government.
Budget
View the budget timeline with recorded meetings and documents.
Water and Sewer
Pay your water and sewer bill, or apply for utilities services for residential or commercial projects in covered areas.
Utilities & Services
Utilities & Services
Stay Up To Date
Sign up to receive Richland County Government information.
Purchasing
Browse open and upcoming bid opportunities and register as a Richland County vendor.
Property & Business
Explore property, business, tax and development information.
Conservation Grants
Funds available to help promote conservation and historic preservation.
Self-represented Procedures
Review Master-in-Equity self-represented procedures.
Board of Zoning Appeals
Guides development in accordance with existing and future needs, suitability, and the Comprehensive Plan.
Budget and Strategic Management
Supporting County departments through financial guidance and managing awarded grant funds.
Neighborhood Improvement
Partner with the County to develop neighborhood plans and coordinate improvement projects.
Richland County Neighborhood Council
Provides residents an information exchange and advises local officials on issues affecting communities.
Conservation Education
Find resources for teachers to inspire students on conservation topics.
Seed Sanctuary
Residents can request free vegetable, herb and wildflower seeds.
Planning Conference
An annual conference by the Richland County Neighborhood Improvement Program to learn what you can do as an individual to improve your neighborhood.
Rental Properties
Rental properties require registration in Richland County.
Procurement and Contracting
Promoting full and open competition for purchasing goods and administering contracts.
Central Midlands Regional Transit Authority (CMRTA)
Promotes transportation opportunities for all citizens within Richland County and a limited service area in Lexington County.
Lexington Richland Alcohol and Drug Abuse Council
Provides alcohol and drug abuse services to Lexington and Richland Counties.
Richland Memorial Hospital (Prisma Health) Board of Trustees
Oversees the operation and governance of the hospital system.
Central Midlands Council of Governments
Guides area-wide development wit research, planning and technical assistance.
Airport Operations
Learn about airport operations and pilot information.
Airport Facilities
Learn about the airport facilities and send a request.
Forfeited Land Available
Learn how forfeited properties are sold, including offer forms and payment instructions.
Jim Hamilton-LB Owens Airport
A single runway general aviation facility supporting transportation and economic development needs.
Connect with OSBO
Complete the interest form to connect with the Office of Small Business Opportunity.
About the Airport
Learn about airport history, commission and partners.
Homes and Communities
Find Richland County programs and services to strengthen communities.
Educational Materials
Educational materials are available for Richland County educators to borrow for classroom use.
Conservation
Protecting our natural, cultural and historical resources through outreach, grants, and special projects.
Voting and Elections
Register to vote, or check your registration ahead of elections.
All Elections
Learn about upcoming elections in Richland County.
Assistant County Administrators
Assistant County Administrator direct and coordinate different departments within Richland County.
Midlands Workforce Development Board
Helps strengthen and improve our nation’s public workforce system.
Campers and Motor Homes
Understand how taxes are calculated for campers and motor homes.
Watercraft
Understand how taxes are calculated for watercraft.
Stormwater
Promoting stormwater drainage and water quality enhancement.
Conservation Education Mini-Grants
Apply for up to $1,000 in grant funding to support conservation projects and youth environmental education initiatives.
Accommodation Grants
Available financial support for tourism-related projects that attract visitors for overnight stays.
Hospitality Grants
Available financial support to organizations or projects with a mission to attract tourists.
Auditor
Calculates and prepares property tax bills based on assessed values and applicable tax rates.
Accommodation Taxes
Businesses offering short-term accommodations can pay Local Accommodations Taxes online.
Conservation Commission
Protects the County's natural, historical, and cultural resources and promotes nature-based recreation and eco- and heritage tourism
Property Search
Search for Richland County properties by tax map number, address or owner.
Vehicle Tax
Property Valuation
Understand how real property is valued for taxation in Richland County.
Business Personal Property Taxes
Businesses pay taxes on business-related furniture, fixtures and equipment.
Delinquent Taxes
Understand what happens when taxes go unpaid and how to avoid penalties.
Property Tax
Learn how three key County offices work together and how to read the tax bill.
Hospitality Taxes
Business owners can pay Richland County hospitality taxes online.
Tax Exemptions
Review the different qualifications for tax exemptions on real property and vehicles.
Legal Residence
Reduce the assessment ratio from 6% to 4% when you meet residency and ownership requirements.
Grants
Find funding opportunities for communities, organizations, nonprofits and more.
Marriage
Apply for a marriage license, or request a certified copy of your completed license.
Pay Taxes
Pay your Richland County taxes online, in person, by mail or request a payment plan.
Jobs
Discover employee benefits, browse open positions, and apply for employment.
Vehicle Tax
Vehicle taxes are due each year by the last day of the month your decal expires.
All Available Jobs
Browse all Richland County jobs and apply online.
Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) Academy
Learn about our accelerated medical training program for EMT certification.
Maps (GIS)
Explore our mapped datasets designed to support a variety of Richland County operations.
Detention Center Careers
Learn about job opportunities at Alvin S. Glenn Detention Center.
Human Resources
Developing and implementing policies, procedures and programs to support County employees.
Probate Court
Handles estate administration, estate and trust litigation, appointment of guardians and conservators, civil commitment, and issues marriage licenses.
Business Taxes
Find information for business personal property, hospitality, and accommodation taxes.
Subscription Data Services
A fee-based subscription service for online viewing of records related to Richland County deeds and estates.
Hazardous Materials
Enforcing the local laws on chemicals or substances that may be harmful to people or the environment.
Probate Forms and Terms
Access Richland County Probate forms and understand related terms.
Richland County Title VI
Richland County's Title VI statements, procedures and reporting.
Estates
Open an estate after death, search for pending estates, and search estate records.
Manufactured Homes
Understand the requirements for registering or relocating manufactured homes in Richland County.
Government and Community Services
The Richland County Government and Community Services Department connects Richland County residents with their local government.
Departments
Learn about the different departments of Richland County Government.
Comprehensive Planning
Learn about the long-term plan for Richland County’s growth, development, and preservation.
Public Information Office
Increasing public awareness and understanding of Richland County Government and serving as a media contact.
Public Records
Steps to request non-exempt public records in accordance with the SC Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
Election Workers
Learn about poll manager training and election worker opportunities.
Common Pleas
A division of Circuit Court that hears civil lawsuits involving large claims, such as injury cases, contract disputes, or property matters.
Water or Sewer Bill
Pay your Richland County water or sewer bill online, by phone, in person, by mail or set up automatic drafts.
Report Prison Rape
The Detention Center maintains a zero tolerance policy for sexual harassment of inmates.
Register of Deeds
Officially recorded real estate records for Richland County.
Subscription Data Services
A fee-based subscription service for online viewing of records related to Richland County deeds and estates.
Assessment Appeal
Follow the outlined process to appeal your property's valuation within 90 days of notice.
Apply to Serve
Apply to interview for posted vacancies in citizen service boards, committees, and commissions.
Board of Voter Registration and Elections
Oversees all aspects of elections in Richland County, from voter registration to certification of results.
Planning and Development Services
Providing guidance to develop property in Richland County from concept to completion.
Animal Services
Keeping communities safe by promoting responsible pet ownership and protecting against the diseases carried by pests.
Richland County Polling Location Precinct List
All Richland County polling location precincts.
Office of Small Business Opportunity
Helping small businesses grow and compete through guidance and resources.
Administrator
The County Administrator serves as the administrative head of Richland County, directing and coordinating the operation of agencies and administrative activities established by County Council.
Richland County Early Voting Locations
All Richland County early voting locations.
Probate Contacts
Contact list for Probate Court.
Board of Assessment Appeals
Hears appeals related to property tax disputes between the Assessor and the taxpayer.
Planning Commission
Plans programs for the physical, social and economic growth, development and redevelopment of the unincorporated area of the County.
Airport Commission
Advises County Council on development, maintenance and operation of Jim Hamilton-L.B. Owens Airport (CUB) and promotes aviation in Richland County.
Accommodations Tax Advisory Committee
Makes recommendations on the expenditure of revenue generated from the Accommodations Tax.
Animal Care Advisory Committee
Provides oversight and recommendations regarding improving animal care services.
Architectural Review Board
Serves as the review board for Certificates of Design Approval for new construction, major renovations of the exterior appearance of a building, and demolitions for applicable parcels within a Neighborhood Character Overlay.
Administration and Finance Committee
Functions as a committee of ways and means.
Neighborhood Improvement Program
Supporting the long-term health of neighborhoods by investing in resident-directed projects and planning.
Zoning Overlays
Zoning overlays maintain the unique architectural, natural, cultural, and historic attributes of neighborhoods.
Neighborhood Enrichment Grants
Provides funds for neighborhood-based groups for beautification, safety, health, leisure, and engagement projects.
Emergency Solutions Grant
Helps individuals and families in our community experiencing homelessness or at risk of losing their homes.
Community Impact Grants
Financial support for organizations offering innovative and needed services for all citizens.
River Alliance Board
Creates community benefit from 90 miles of the region’s rivers.
Transportation Penny Advisory Committee
Reviews, comments on, and provides recommendations to County Council regarding use of the one-cent additional sales tax.
Flooding
Learn about local flood management, safety and property protection.
Richland County Transportation Committee (CTC)
Selects and approves C-fund expenditures and adheres to the limitations prescribed by law, by allocating a minimum of % of the county apportionment on the state highway system and 67% to be expended for local projects, with coordinating among SCDOT, local government entities, for road improvements, to avoid duplication, by utilizing the established technical advisory committee.
Legislative Delegation
Serves as liaison between the various levels of government, individual citizens and the elected Senators and House Representatives of Richland County, in the South Carolina General Assembly.
Homeownership Assistance
Provides down payment and closing cost assistance to eligible first-time homebuyers purchasing a home in unincorporated Richland County.
Detention Center
Get detainee information, visitation guidelines, and mail rules.
Minor Home Repairs
Provides repairs to income-eligible homeowners for critical health and safety needs on their home.
Community Development Block Grants
Grants from the U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery
Our comprehensive framework for the federal disaster recovery funds received after the impact of Hurricane Joaquin in 2015.
Historic Preservation Grants
Grants available for site restoration and preservation education and research programs.
Tax Sale
Information, instructions and bidder registration for the annual tax sale and sealed bid auction.
Natural Resource Grants
Grants available for protecting and enhancing water quality and natural areas.
Riverbanks Park Commission
Governs the Riverbanks Park Special Purpose District for the financial stability of the zoo.
Rules and Appointments Committee
Reviews, provides oversight, and serves as advisory body on the rules of the County Council concerning appointments to County boards, commissions, and committees.
The Township Auditorium
Oversees the performing arts venue to provide quality services to the community.
Richland Soil and Water Conservation District
Promotes natural resource conservation through education, demonstrations, technical and financial assistance.
Voter Registration and Elections
Providing every citizen the opportunity to register to vote and maintaining the integrity and accuracy of elections.
Reports
Richland County is a leader in transparent financial reporting.