Skip to main content
STI Testing & Treatment
Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) testing and treatment is done on a walk-in basis. During high-volume times, we may need to temporarily suspend our walk-in services . To protect the safety and privacy of our clients, their children and our staff, children may not be permitted in exam rooms for some services.
Services provided by Advanced Practice Registered Nurses/Registered Nurses include:
Sexually transmitted infection testing and treatment, including gonorrhea , chlamydia , HIV , hepatitis C and syphilis
Treatment of partners of people with STIs
Vaginitis testing and treatment
HIV counseling, testing and referral
We are unable to test blood for herpes simplex virus (HSV).
Walk-in Clinic Hours
All STI testing and treatment services are provided on a walk-in only basis at our Olathe clinic.
Paying for Services
STI screenings start at $50 (additional charges may apply for other tests). See our fees page for more information.
Resources
Together TakeMeHome - Free HIV Self-Test Kits for U.S. residents (including Puerto Rico) who are age 17 and older.
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs)
STI/HIV Program - Kansas Department of Health and Environment
gettested.cdc.gov - FAQs about HIV/AIDS and a search tool for finding local testing locations, sponsored by the CDC
rainn.org - Informational resources and an online hotline specializing in sexual assault, sponsored by the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network
powertodecide.org - Informational resources and community activities to help prevent teen and unintended pregnancy, sponsored by the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unintended Pregnancy
Hotlines
CDC-INFO: 1-800-CDC-INFO ( 1-800-232-4636 ) | TTY 1-888-232-6348 - Available from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. CST, in English and Spanish; counselors available to answer questions about personal health issues, including HIV and other STIs; online zip code tool for finding local HIV and STI testing locations also available at gettested.cdc.gov . You can also send questions via email . Sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
The National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-SAFE (7233) | TTY 1-800-787-3224 - Available 24 hours a day, every day, in English and Spanish; victims and anyone calling on their behalf can provide crisis intervention, safety planning, and information and referrals to agencies in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. Live chat is available online.
National Sexual Assault Hotline: 1-800-656-HOPE (4673) - Free, confidential help available 24 hours a day, every day. Live chat is available online. Sponsored by the Rape, Abuse, Incest National Network (RAINN).