Nebraska State Court Form
DC 6:9.1 Rev. 08/2023
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 25-21,271
IN RE NAME CHANGE OF: Case No.
(case number assigned by clerk of court)
,
(your full name) PETITION FOR NAME
CHANGE (Adult)
,I,
(current first name) (current middle name(s)) (current last name(s))
without the assistance of an attorney, ask this court for a name change. In support
of this Petition, I state that the following items are true:
,
(your present street address)
,
1. My address is
County, Nebraska.
(city where you live) (county where you live)
2. I have been a resident of County, Nebraska
(county where you live )
for more than one year prior to the filing of this petition.
3. My date of birth is provided on the Confidential Party Information Form
(DC 6:9.4).
4. My current name is:
(current first name) (current middle name(s))
5. I desire the court to change my current name of:
(current first name) (current middle name(s))
to my preferred new name of:
(new first name) (new middle name(s))
,
(current last name(s))
(current last name(s))
.
(new last name(s))
DC 6:9.1 Rev. 08/2023 Page 1 of 2 Petition for Name Change
6. I desire to change my name for the following reasons:
WHEREFORE, I respectfully request that the court set this matter for hearing,
and that upon such hearing, order my current name to be changed from:
(current first name) (current middle name(s))
to my preferred new name of:
(new first name) (new middle name(s))
(current last name(s))
(new last name(s))
.
Signature:
Printed Name:
Date:
Street Address/P.O. Box:
City/State/ZIP Code:
Telephone Number:
*Email address:
* Nebraska Supreme Court Rule § 2-208 requires individuals who are not
attorneys and representing themselves to provide their email address. The court
will use the email address to send notices from the court about this case except for
items that require another type of service as directed by statute or Nebraska
Supreme Court Rule.
If you no longer have email capability or if your email or other contact
information changes, you must complete a Change of Contact Information Form.
By checking this box, I am letting the court know that I do not have the ability
to receive emails. The reason I cannot receive email is:
DC 6:9.1 Rev. 08/2023 Page 2 of 2 Petition for Name Change