Home // Our Services // Gender Affirming Care // Gender Affirming Legal Resources
Gender Affirming Legal Resources
Get connected with free legal resources for changing your name and gender marker on your identification.
Name and Gender Marker Updates
As part of our comprehensive gender-affirming care, Equitas Health directs patients to trusted resources to support the transgender, non-binary, and gender expansive community with name and gender marker changes on state and federal identification. Below, you can learn about these resources, including free legal clinics, DIY guides, and more.
Legal Clinics
There are various legal clinic resources to support name and gender marker changes on state and federal documents. For instance, Equality Ohio offers a legal clinic that can help with this and other civil matters for individuals who qualify. Additionally, TransOhio offers a monthly legal clinic – the Ohio Name Change Clinic – and microgrants to support the associated legal fees with name and gender marker changes. And finally, dedicated legal aid groups – such as Legal Aid of Southeast and Central Ohio (LASCO) – also offer community legal clinic resources.
Do It Yourself!
While various legal clinic resources exist throughout Ohio, the wait time for these clinics can be several weeks. If you prefer not to wait or you would like to learn more about the process, additional resources can help you. More information about these resources is available below.
DIY guide from Equitas Health, TransOhio, and Cooper Elliott
ID Documents Center from Advocates for Trans Equality (A4TE)
Identity Document Laws and Policies national map from Movement Advancement Project (MAP)
Identity Document Guidance from Lambda Legal
Additional Legal Resources
At Equitas Health, we understand that transgender, non-binary, and gender expansive people often have legal resource needs beyond name and gender marker changes. Below, you can review a variety of resources to help with needs related to health insurance coverage, end-of-life planning, other civil matters, and more. More information about these resources is available below.
Trans Health Project from Advocates for Trans Equality (A4TE)
Medicaid Coverage of Transgender-Related Healthcare from Movement Advancement Project (MAP)
Life Planning Documents for Transgender Communities from Transgender Law Center
Know Your Rights: Trans Legal Survival Guide from Advocates for Trans Equality (A4TE)
Legal Help Desk from Lambda Legal
Legal Information Help Desk from Transgender Law Center
DIY Guide
Follow our step-by-step guide to the legal name and gender marker change process in the State of Ohio and each Ohio county.
Gender Affirming Care
For the Whole Person
Medical Care
Mental Health
Pharmacy
Community
Medical Care
You’re in the driver’s seat. You know where you want to go. We are the navigators—ready to get you there as quickly and safely as possible.
Personalized Care
Does gender affirming care require hormone therapy?
Only if you want it to. Whatever your path, we’re here to affirm your identity and offer you choices.
Non-Binary Identities
I'm genderqueer. Is Gender Affirming Care for me?
Yes! We offer affirming services for people who identify outside of the gender binary. We are here for you.
Informed Consent
Do I need approval from a psychiatrist to start treatment?
No. Our providers will listen to you and help you map out a hormone regimen that will reach your goals.
Mental Health
Stigma causes many trans and non-binary people to experience depression and other mental illness. But it doesn’t have to keep you from care.
Counseling
How can mental health counseling help?
Our mental health counselors are here to affirm your identity and help you thrive. You are not alone!
Psychiatry
How do I know if I need psychiatry?
You'll start by meeting with a mental health counselor to determine if medication could be helpful to you.
Addiction Recovery
How can I tell if I have an addiction?
If substance use feels like your only way to cope or gets in the way of other needs, our recovery specialists can help.
Pharmacy
Our pharmacy staff work at Equitas Health because they want to provide quality, affordable, affirming care to LGBTQ+ people.
Knowledgeable
Will hormone therapy affect my other medications?
Our pharmacists are experts in gender affirming care. They can help you manage your medications safely.
Affirming
What if I have to give myself injections?
Our pharmacists will teach you to inject your medications safely and support you until you feel comfortable.
Convenient
What if I don’t live near Equitas Health?
Don’t worry! We offer free delivery to patients who live in Ohio. (Some restrictions apply.)
Community
Engaging in gender affirming care may feel like a giant leap. But you don’t have to take it alone.
Support Groups
How do I connect with other people in transition?
In Transition is a support group for people in gender affirming transition or thinking about transition.
Akron, Ohio
Where can I meet other trans people of color?
Trans/Lation is a group geared towards trans women of color. Other trans and non-binary people welcome.
Columbus, Ohio
Where can I meet other trans people of color?
Mozaic is a wellness space by and for trans and non-binary youth and young adults of color. Stop by!
What else can we help you with?
Whole Person Healthcare
Primary Care
We define quality by how much we care, not how much we cost. From routine physicals to same-day sick care, we’re your partner on your health and wellness journey.
Primary Care about Primary Care
Gender Affirming Care
Whether you are in transition or beyond. We offer an individualized approach with a compassionate and experienced care team at your side.
Gender Affirming Care about Gender Affirming Care
HIV/STI Testing
Knowing is everything! Whether your result is negative or positive, your HIV/STI check can be the start of a new, healthy life.
HIV/STI Testing & Sexual Health Clinics about HIV/STI Testing
Survivor Support
Everyone deserves to be safe. We offer support and advocacy for LGBTQ+ people who have been the target of violence, abuse, and assault.
Survivor Support Services about Survivor Support
TelePrEP
Most Ohioans qualify for programs that cover the cost of PrEP and related expenses. Now you can get on PrEP and stay on PrEP from home!
TeleHealth about TelePrEP
Recovery & Addiction
Are you concerned about your substance use? When you are ready to begin your recovery journey, we are ready to walk beside you.
Recovery & Addiction about Recovery & Addiction
View All Services
Don’t know what you don’t know? View our full list of services and build your care team. You deserve access to quality, affordable, affirming care!
Our Services about View All Services
Support Groups
Some of us heal best when we heal together. Become part of a group for people living with HIV, people in transition, people who use substances or are in recovery, LBGTQ+ people, and more.
Find Community about Support Groups
Blog
9/8/26
Equitas Health Celebrates National Voter Registration Day on September 15
Blog
8/3/26
Equitas Health Accepting Applications to Join Board of Trustees
Blog
7/24/26
Equitas Health Celebrates Mozaic During National Health Center Week 2026
We use cookies to make our website better for you. By using our site, you agree to our use of cookies. You can learn more about this in our Privacy Policy . Accept