Skip to main content
An Official West Virginia Government Website
State Agency Directory | Online Services | Phone Directory
Acceptable Proof Documents
Proof of Identity Documents
An original or certified copy of a United States-issued birth certificate (U.S. Department of State and U.S. Military birth certificates ARE acceptable, hospital birth certificates and Bureau of Census records are NOT acceptable) To obtain a birth certificate, if you were born in West Virginia, contact the Office of Vital Statistics or the County Clerk at the courthouse of the county in which you were born. If you were born in another state, the National Center for Health Statistics has information on how to obtain a birth certificate.
Valid, unexpired U.S. Passport or official U.S. Passport card
If foreign born, valid, unexpired Department of Homeland Security (DHS) document(s) or acceptable alternatives as outlined below: Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551) issued by DHS (or INS)
Employment authorization document (EAD) issued by DHS, Form I-766 or Form I-688B
Certificate of Naturalization issued by DHS, Form N-550 or Form N-570
Certificate of Citizenship, Form N-560 or Form N-561, issued by DHS
Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) issued by the U.S. Department of State, Form FS-240, DS-1350 or FS-545
Foreign passport with a valid, unexpired U.S. visa affixed accompanied by the approved I-94 form documenting the applicant's most recent admittance into the United States
Proof of Social Security Number Documents
Social Security card
Original Wage and Tax Statement (W-2) or payroll stub with the applicant's employer name and employer ID number, as well as the applicant's name, address, and Social Security number (a photocopy of a W-2 is not acceptable) (You may use the same W-2 as one proof of WV residency, provided it is not more than 18 months old)
1099 form with applicant's full Social Security number and name
Please make sure your Social Security records reflect your full legal name, as reflected on your other documents. DMV must be able to establish a name connection between documents, therefore your full legal name must match your name on file with the Social Security Administration. If an applicant is not eligible for a social security number, then the applicant must submit a denial letter from the Social Security Administration. The Division checks every social security number with the SSA. If you have a problem with the SSA, such as name or date of birth does not match with records of the DMV, and SSA then you must have the problem corrected before you can be issued a permit, license, or identification card. Your documents will be scanned and returned to you, which will provide DMV with a historical record, and provide you with additional protection, per the Federal Real ID Act of 2005. Please visit the Social Security Administration website for information about obtaining a Social Security number.
Proof of Legal Name Change Documents
DMV must be able to establish a link between any legal name changes — Please call 1-800-642-9066 to clarify which proof of name change document(s) you will need to bring in to obtain your license or ID card (you may be required to provide all or some of the following proof below)
Certified marriage certificate (for each marriage if married more than once, souvenir documents or Minister's copies are not acceptable) If you need to obtain one, contact the county courthouse in the county and state in which you were married ( view the West Virginia courthouse directory ).
Original or certified copy of a birth certificate with amended legal name To obtain a birth certificate, if you were born in West Virginia, contact the Office of Vital Statistics. If you were born in another state, the National Center for Health Statistics has information on how to obtain a birth certificate.
Court Order with legal name / name change
Certified divorce decree(s) with legal name / name change
Proof of West Virginia Residency Documents
You will be required to provide TWO proofs of West Virginia residency. Documents with a PO Box are not acceptable. Any recurring document cannot be more than 60 days old. You may not use more than one document issued by the same company.
Acceptable Documents
WV utility bills (not more than 60 days old)
Tax records with a WV street address
WV mortgage documents, homeowner insurance documents, or proof of WV home ownership
WV W-2 form not more than 18 months old
WV weapons permit
Valid WV vehicle registration card
WV Voter's Registration card
Driver's Eligibility Certificate (only if it has a WV street address)
WV Homestead Tax exemption
Proof of WV public assistance
Residential rental or lease agreement
WV DMV Affidavit of West Virginia Residency
College admissions letter showing in-state residency
Pay check stub from any WV employer showing a current physical address (cannot be hand-written)
Social Security benefits letter
WV Professional License
WV bank statement
WV auto insurance card
WV hunting license
911 letter
Affidavit of WV Facility Residency (for those residing in a WV shelter, hotel, nursing home, or other similar facility)
Download the brochure on the new driver's license and ID card requirements.
Changes to Birth Date, Social Security Number
The license or identification card holder shall substantiate a change of name by marriage with a certified marriage certificate. The license or identification card holder may choose from the following options to display his or her name on the driver's license. However, a court order specifying a change of name supersedes a birth certificate and certified marriage certificate.
Last name, first name then middle name as evidenced by the applicant's certified birth certificate.
Last name of spouse, as evidenced by the applicant's certified marriage certificate, then the first name and middle name as evidenced by the applicant's birth certificate.
Last name as evidenced by the applicant's marriage license, first name, then maiden name as evidenced by the applicant's birth certificate to stand in place of the middle name.
Any change in the birth date requires a certified birth certificate.
Any change or correction of the Social Security number requires a Social Security card (non-metal and not a printout from SSA).
Any change of gender requires the submission of the Gender Designation Form , which must be fully and accurately completed and signed by a licensed physician.
View the Secure Licensing FAQ Section.
5707 MacCorkle Avenue, SE
Charleston , WV 25304
United States
ADA Information
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Locations
Title VI
West Virginia Code
WV DOT Privacy Notices
Get in Touch
Hi there! 👋 I'm the WVDOT Public Assistant. How can I help you today?
WVDOT Public Assistant
ONLINE
Establishing Connection...
Disclaimer: The information provided is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute legal advice. The WVDOT does not assume liability for actions taken based on the Assistant's responses.
Privacy, Security and Accessibility | WV.gov | USA.gov | © 2026 State of West Virginia