Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-4
Current as of January 01, 2026 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
Sec. 4 . (a) Proof of the publication required in this chapter is made by filing a copy of
the published notice, verified by the affidavit of a disinterested person, and when
proof of publication is made, the court shall, subject to the limitations imposed
by subsections (b), (c), and (d), proceed to hear the petition and make an order and
decree the court determines is just and reasonable.
(b) In the case of a petition described in section 2(b) of this chapter, the court may not hear the petition and issue a final decree until
after thirty (30) days from the later of:
(1) the filing of proof of publication of the notice required under subsection (a); or
(2) the service of the petition upon the parents or guardian of the minor child.
(c) In the case of a petition described in section 2(b) of this chapter, the court shall set a date for a hearing on the petition if:
(1) written objections have been filed; or
(2) either parent or the guardian of the minor child has refused or failed to give written
consent as described in section 2(b) of this chapter.
The court shall require that appropriate notice of the hearing be given to the parent
or guardian of the minor child or to any person who has filed written objections.
(d) In deciding on a petition to change the name of a minor child, the court shall be
guided by the best interest of the child rule under IC 31-17-2-8 . However, there is a presumption in favor of a parent of a minor child who:
(1) has been making support payments and fulfilling other duties in accordance with a
decree issued under IC 31-15 , IC 31-16 , or IC 31-17 (or IC 31-1-11.5 before its repeal); and
(2) objects to the proposed name change of the child.
(e) In the case of a person required to give notice under section 3(c) of this chapter, the petitioner must certify to the court that the petitioner has
complied with the notice requirements of that subsection.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-4 - last updated January 01, 2026 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/in/title-34-civil-law-and-procedure/in-code-sect-34-28-2-4/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Indiana Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
New Study: High Rates of Depression, Burnout Continue Among Attorneys
Surrogate Seeks U.S. Supreme Court Stay in Newborn Parentage Dispute
The ABA Just Repealed Its Diversity and Inclusion Standard
Virginia Draws the Line on Overdose Immunity
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat