Skip to content
Regular Driver License
Replacement
Replacement Driver License
You would need a replacement license for a name/address change, or a lost/stolen license, if your expiration date is more than six months from now.
Expiration Date
If your Utah license expires in the next six months, visit our Renewal page. If your license does not expire within the next six months, the expiration date will remain the same as your current license.
Written Knowledge Test
Testing is not required when obtaining a replacement driver license.
STEPS
Gather Your Documents For Your Replacement Driver License:
Current Utah driver license. If your document is lost or stolen, please provide at least one item from this Required Documents page to verify your identity. If you have filed a police report, bring it with you.
Address verification (2) if you have moved from your last known address on file.
If you submit your address change online prior to scheduling your appointment, address verification will not be required.
&#x25b8; Has your name changed? If you were recently married/divorced, or the name on your driver license or ID card doesn't match the name on your birth certificate, amended birth certificate, or passport, you'll need legal documentation to explain the difference.
These documents could be:
A certified marriage certificate from the state
A divorce decree
An updated passport
A new birth certificate
Adoption papers
A citizenship or naturalization certificate
Court papers showing the name change, sealed by the court
Submit Application and Schedule Appointment:
You will need to schedule an appointment to visit a Driver License office to complete the process of replacing your Utah driver license.
Apply for Driver License Replacement
(opens in a new tab)
Arrive For Your Appointment:
Have your appointment confirmation number ready to check in at the front desk.
Take a photo.
Take a number.
Present documents to the examiner.
Complete the eye test .
Pay the non-refundable fee of $23.00.
When Do I Get My Driver License?
A temporary driver license will be issued on the same day.
The completed license will be mailed to you in approximately 4-6 weeks.
Attention: By law, you may not possess more than one REAL ID-compliant certificate at a time (e.g., a Utah license and a Colorado ID.)
Translate »
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<