Georgia Code Title 19. Domestic Relations § 19-12-1
Current as of March 28, 2024 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
(1) “Abandoned” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 15-11-2 .
(2) “ Child ” means an unemancipated individual who is under 18 years of age.
(3) “Family violence” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 19-13-1 .
(4) “ Human trafficking ” means an offense provided for under Code Section 16-5-46 .
(b) Any individual desirous of changing his or her name or the name of his or her
child may present a petition to the superior court of the county of his or her residence. Such petition shall set forth fully and particularly the reasons why the name change
is being requested. Such petition shall be verified by the petitioner.
(c)(1) When a name change is requested by a petitioner who alleges to be a victim
of family violence or human trafficking, such petitioner may petition the court to
file his or her petition to change his or her name under seal.
(2) If the court determines that the petitioner is a victim of family violence or
human trafficking, the court may issue an order waiving the requirements of publication
as set forth in subsection (d) of this Code section. If the court determines that such filing shall be allowed to proceed under seal
and otherwise waives the other requirements of this Code section, it may hear and
determine all of the matters raised in such petition and render a final judgment thereon.
(3) After issuing an order under paragraph (2) of this subsection, the court may later
unseal a petition for name change or order the petitioner to file a redacted version
of such petition for the public record.
(4) If the court determines that the petitioner is not a victim of family violence
or human trafficking, the underlying petition for name change shall not be heard until
this Code section has been complied with in full.
(5) The court shall retain all filings made under seal as part of the record.
(d) Except when an order has been issued as provided in paragraph (2) of subsection
(c) of this Code section, within seven days of the filing of the petition, the petitioner
shall cause a notice to be published once a week for four consecutive weeks in the
legal organ of the county in which such petition is pending. The notice shall contain the name of the petitioner, the name of the individual
whose name is to be changed if different from that of the petitioner, the new name
desired, the court in which the petition is pending, the date on which the petition
was filed, and the right of any interested or affected party to appear and file objections.
(e) If the petitioner seeks to change the name of his or her child, the written consent
of his or her parent or parents if they are living and have not abandoned the child,
or the written consent of the child's guardian if both parents are deceased or have
abandoned the child, shall be filed with the petition.
(f) When a petition is seeking to change the name of a child, the parent or parents
of the child shall be served with a copy of the petition. If the parent or parents reside within this state, service of the petition shall
be made in person, provided that if the location or address of the parent is unknown,
service of the petition on the parent shall be made by publication as provided in
subsection (d) of this Code section. If the parent or parents reside outside this state, service of the petition on the
parent or parents residing outside this state shall be made by certified mail or statutory
overnight delivery if the address is known or by publication as provided in subsection
(d) of this Code section if the address is not known.
(g) When a child resides with individuals other than his or her parent or parents,
a copy of the petition shall be served upon such individuals in the same manner as
service would be made on a parent.
(h) So long as a petition has not been heard and granted under paragraph (2) of subsection
(c) of this Code section, after proof to the court of publication of the notice as
required by subsection (d) of this Code section is made, if no objection was filed,
the court shall proceed at chambers on such date as the court shall fix to hear and
determine all matters raised by the petition and to render final judgment or decree
thereon. Such hearing shall occur upon the expiration of:
(1) Thirty days from the filing of the petition if the individual whose name to be
changed is an adult;
(2) Thirty days from the date of service upon the parent, parents, or guardian of
a child whose name is to be changed if the parent, parents, or guardian reside within
this state; or
(3) Sixty days from the date of service upon the parent, parents, or guardian of a
child whose name is to be changed if either the parent, parents, or guardian reside
outside the state and the petition is served by mail.
(i) For service required by this Code section, the clerk shall receive the fees prescribed
in Code Section 15-6-77 .
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Georgia Code Title 19. Domestic Relations § 19-12-1 - last updated March 28, 2024 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/ga/title-19-domestic-relations/ga-code-sect-19-12-1/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Georgia Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
When Campaign Donations Become Illegal
A Legal Bodyslam? Federal Judge Approves ESPN’s Motion To Intervene in Civil Suit Against WWE
760,000 ACA Enrollees Were Dropped Over ‘Fraud’ Claims. Here’s What Consumers Need to Know.
SEC Opens Door for Crypto-Style Trading of U.S. Stocks
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat