Skip to content
Health care for queer people by queer people.
We’re Connecticut’s leading health center for the LGBTQ community. You deserve groundbreaking, radically inclusive, gender-affirming, and sex-positive care — that’s why we’re here.
About Us
Our Services
High-quality health care is more than just treating symptoms, it&#8217;s recognizing your individual needs and experiences. We acknowledge your right to tell us who you are and what you need. Our goal is to make you feel seen, heard, and respected in a safe, welcoming, and affirming space.
What We Do
primary care
Gender-affirming medicine
PrEP for hiv prevention
Queer Pelvis Project
Sexual Health Care
HIV care
Primary Care
Care centered around health promotion, disease prevention, patient education, support in treating short- and long-term conditions.
GENDER-AFFIRMING MEDICINE
Medicine regimens tailored to meet your individual needs and goals — no gatekeeping.
prep for hiv prevention
Quick visits, discreet delivery, and most patients pay $0.
Queer Pelvis Project
A safe and trauma-informed approach to make exams less stressful.
Sexual Health Care
Get empowered to make the best decisions for your sex life.
HIV CARE
Our specialists work with you to create a care plan that reflects your needs and concerns.
“Very friendly LGBTQ (and allies) staff. Highly recommend! Sex positivity, including TGNC couples, non-monogamous relationships, kinky life, and more. Always a phone call away and if busy, they call back ASAP. Easy to read paperwork and quick refills. Always love referring people to Anchor Health!&#8221;
&#8211; KYLER &#8211;
Become a Patient
Locations & Hours
Support Our Mission
become a patient
location & hours
Support our mission
Our mission is to embrace and promote the health and well-being of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and gender diverse individuals through compassionate, comprehensive, and science-based care in a safe, welcoming, and affirming space.
Latest from Anchor Health
ANCHOR HEALTH TO CELEBRATE A DECADE OF LGBTQ HEALTH CARE WITH INAUGURAL GALA
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 24, 2026 – Anchor Health, Connecticut’s leading LGBTQ health center, is proud to announce that its
Our statement in response to the new federal CMS rule targeting health care for trans young people
YOUR CARE IS PROTECTED IN CONNECTICUT. Anchor Health vehemently condemns the Trump administration’s newly released rule barring Medicaid (HUSKY A)
Where healing begins: the importance of front-line staff
A message from Anchor Health's Practice Manager on the important role front-line staff play in the continuum of patient care.
Need help changing your name or IDENTITY documents?
We got you! Our in-house case managers can walk you step-by-step through the process.
find out more
About us
Locations &#038; hours
Contact us
Accessibility
Board of Directors
Work with us
Services
Primary care
Gender-affirming medicine
Queer Pelvis Project
HIV prevention &#038; treatment
Sexual health care
Psychiatry
Case management
Pharmacy
Patient Resources
FAQ
Patient forms
Privacy information
Patient Rights &#038; Responsibilities
Code of Conduct
Appointment Cancellation, No-Show, and Late Policy
Non-Discrimination Policy
Patient grievances
Research studies
News &#038; Community
Newsletter sign-up
Newsroom
Blog
Upcoming events
Pride Zine
Inaugural Gala
Store
Donate
Become A Patient