Skip Nav
Birth/Death Vital Records - Forms
Fee Schedule
Certified Birth Certificates USD25.00.
Certified Death Certificates USD22-25.00 (depending on county of origin).
All verifications USD10.00
Birth
Death
Marriage
Divorce
Paternity letter
Amendments, correction, paternities, court-ordered records USD45.00 (with certified copy).
Applications
Forms for obtaining certified copies and verifications of records
Birth Certificate Application
Birth Certificate Application Spanish
Solicitud De Certificado De Nacimiento
Birth Certificate Homeless Adult Application
Birth Certificate Safe Haven Application
Death Certificate Application
Death Certificate Application Spanish
Solicitud De Certificado De Defuncion
Verification of Birth or Death
Paternity Letter Application
Authorization for Credit Card Usage
Adoptions
All Adoptions require a complete Report of Adoption and a certified court order of adoption.
Report of Adoption
Report of Adoption Multiparent
Replacement of Foreign Born Certificate Application
Parentage (Paternity) Declarations
Declaration of Parentage
Declaration of Paternity
Corrections and Amendments
Correction Affidavits CAN NOT be used to add a parent or adopt a child. All adoptions require a court order.
Corrections Packet - Instructions Only
Correction Packet - Birth Certificate
Correction Packet - Court Ordered
Correction Packet - Death Certificate.
Home and Delayed Births
Home Birth Packet - Less than one year
Delayed Birth Packet - Greater than one year
Professional Access
This Application is for professional personnel who will be entering information for the Nevada Vital Records System.
Application for Access VRS
Marriage and Divorce Records
Need Help Getting Your Real ID?
If you already know your marriage or divorce date, proceed directly to the county list linked below to find in which you were married or divorced for the license or decree.
***NOTE ***
All Marriage and Divorce records are held at the county level. However, you will need to know the exact date of the marriage or divorce decree to get a copy. If you already know your date of marriage or the date the divorce decree was issued, please go directly to the county in which the marriage or divorce occurred. They can get the copy you need. The County contact list is linked below.
If you do not know where you were married, what county you were married in, the county your were divorced in or when, you will need the State Office of Vital Records to do that search. Once you have the details, you will be able to give the county what they need to find your marriage license or divorce decree. Fill out the search request and include $10 per search you need done. The State will mail you back the results. The search request form is listed below the county contact list.
Marriage & Divorce County Contact List
List of Cities in Nevada by County
Click Here to Discover Where & When Your Marriage or Divorce Occured
Fee Schedule
Certified Birth Certificates USD25.00.
Certified Death Certificates USD22-25.00 (depending on county of origin).
All verifications USD10.00
Birth
Death
Marriage
Divorce
Paternity letter
Amendments, correction, paternities, court-ordered records USD45.00 (with certified copy).
Scroll to Top