Skip to main content
Welcome to Kansas Legal Services
We are legal aid in Kansas, providing equal access to justice for the most vulnerable Kansans.
You can reach us at 316-267-3975.
SEARCH
Search by Keywords
Search
Find Help Today
Need Legal Assistance?
Call 316-267-3975
Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. to apply for legal assistance.
→ Online application available 8:00 a.m. Monday through 4:30 p.m. Thursday .
NOTE: Online application is not available Friday through Sunday.
Apply Online
Client Testimonials about KLS Services
Thousands of Kansans have been helped by Kansas Legal Services. Hear some of their stories.
Topics
Look through all of our topics to find your legal issue.
View All Topics
Consumer
Consumer Laws , Debt and Debt Collection , Garnishment , Payday Lenders
Family Law
Abuse and Neglect , Adoption , Child Custody , Divorce , Miscellaneous , Spousal Support
Housing
Evictions , Foreclosure Prevention , Landlord / Tenant
View All Topics
2026 Schedule for Expungement Clinics in Kansas
Check out where the next clinic will be for you! The next clinic is September 24 in McPherson County.
Learn more here
A new Kansas law gives Kansans with eviction records the ability to have records cleared.
Casey Johnson, KLS Director of Advocacy and Litigation, said the eligibility threshold is tied to a three-year clean record.
Learn more here
Donate
Kansas Legal Services will not expend any funds for any activity prohibited by the Legal Services Corporation Act, 42 U.S.C. 2996 et seq. or by Public Law 104-134.
Donate Now
NEWS
News & publications
More News
September 9, 2026
Job Opportunities at Kansas Legal Services
SECRETARY - DODGE CITYKansas Legal Services seeks a full-time Secretary to join…
Read More about Job Opportunities at Kansas Legal Services
June 23, 2026
Charity Care: A Guide to Relief of Medical Debt
Kansas Legal Services offers you some guidance if you have medical debt…
Read More about Charity Care: A Guide to Relief of Medical Debt
September 1, 2025
Recognized as a Top Nonprofit on GreatNonprofits
At Kansas Legal Services, our mission has always been clear: to provide equal…
Read More about Recognized as a Top Nonprofit on GreatNonprofits
This is a carousel. Use the previous and next buttons to navigate.
Every Home is at Some Risk of an Extreme Weather Event. What is your risk?
Legal Services Corporation is sponsoring a new website to help disaster survivors in any state in the U.S. - Heartlanddisasterhelp.org
Our Partners
LSC&#039;s support for this website is limited to those activities that are consistent with LSC restrictions.
Show Your Support
Give to KLS through Dillons in 2026. To enroll, please use #UN661
Donate via Dillons