Family Planning, Access, Care, and Treatment Program
Family PACT
Providing comprehensive family planning services to eligible California residents since 1997
Providers
How to Enroll
Learn how to become a Family PACT Provider.
Provider Portal Login
Provider staff and site certifiers can enroll, recertify, and update information for clients. Site certifiers are responsible for provider staff account management in the Family PACT portal. Provider staff can only create their account upon receiving an emailed access code from their clinic location’s site certifier.
Stay in Touch
Sign up for our newsletter.
Clients
Am I Eligible for Family PACT?
Family PACT covers the family planning needs of California residents who are low income and who have no other source of coverage.
Check Your Eligibility (New)
Take a quick pre-application survey to see if you qualify for Family PACT services.
Apply for Family PACT Services (New)
Ready to apply? Fill out the application to apply for Family PACT program coverage.
Log In to Your Account (New)
Already a Family PACT client? Log in here to complete an action or manage your application.
Birth Control Methods
Learn about the birth control methods covered by the Family PACT Program.
News and Updates
Planned Family PACT Portal Production Outage: September 18 &#8211; 20, 2026
September 16, 2026
The Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) will perform a system update to the Family PACT Portal beginning at 8:00 p.m. on Friday, September 18 through Sunday, September 20, 2026, at 4 p.m. During this time, the Family PACT Portal will be unavailable to clients, providers, and DHCS staff. Providers affected by this outage should&hellip;
Online Training Updates
September 14, 2026
To ensure providers receive the most current training and resources to support Family PACT service provision and program integrity, the Office of Family Planning (OFP) is announcing several important updates to the Family PACT training catalog. Updates effective September 14, 2026: Family PACT Program Overview Course The Family PACT Program Overview training course has been fully refreshed&hellip;
Planned Family PACT Portal Production Outage: September 5-6, 2026
September 3, 2026
The Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) will perform a system update to the Family PACT Portal beginning at 11:00 p.m. on Saturday, September 5 through Sunday, September 6, 2026, at 12 p.m. During this time, the Family PACT Portal will be unavailable to clients, providers, and DHCS staff. Providers affected by this outage should&hellip;
Medi-Cal News: REMS Certification and Provider Training Required to Administer Nexplanon
July 24, 2026
On July 24, 2026, the article titled “REMS Certification and Provider Training Required to Administer Nexplanon” was posted to the Medi-Cal News area on the Medi-Cal Provider website. Summary: Effective January 16, 2026, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for Nexplanon® (68 mg etonogestrel implant), extending its approved use from three years&hellip;
Planned Family PACT Portal Production Outage: July 26-27, 2026
July 22, 2026
The Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) will perform a system update to the Family PACT Portal beginning at 12:00 a.m. on Sunday, July 26 through Monday, July 27, 2026, at 6 a.m. During this time, the Family PACT Portal will be unavailable to clients, providers, and DHCS staff. Providers affected by this outage should&hellip;
Family PACT Policy Updates and Clarifications
July 16, 2026
As announced in the July 2026 DHCS Bulletin, effective July 1, 2026, the Office of Family Planning (OFP) has updated the Family PACT Policies, Procedures, and Billing Instructions (PPBI) Manual regarding required trainings, contraceptive requirements, and non-physician medical practitioners. Required Training Update Course Catalog Updates Contraceptive Requirement Clarifications Non-Physician Medical Practitioners (NMPs) Update
Family PACT Telehealth Policy Update
April 22, 2026
The Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) published revisions to the telehealth policy for the Family PACT Program. The policy has been updated to include: Providers who offer Family PACT covered benefits and services via telehealth modalities must offer Family PACT clients the choice between telehealth modalities and the ability to opt for in-person services,&hellip;
FDA Approves Updated Nexplanon Label and Launches New REMS
February 25, 2026
Effective January 16, 2026, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for Nexplanon (68 mg etonogestrel implant), extending its approved use from 3 years to up to 5 years for pregnancy prevention. All clinicians performing Nexplanon insertions or removals must now complete FDA-required Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) certification.&hellip;
Action Required: Reaffirm Client Eligibility at Every Visit Using the Family PACT Portal
February 13, 2026
Providers are required to reaffirm client eligibility during each visit to confirm a client’s current eligibility status has not changed, as stated in the Family PACT Policies, Procedures and Billing Instructions Manual (PPBI); Client Eligibility (client elig) section. Follow these steps to reaffirm client eligibility on the Family PACT Portal.
DHCS 4475 Update
February 12, 2026
On February 10, 2026, the Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) Office of Family Planning published the updated version of the Site Certifier for Multiple Service Locations Declaration (DHCS 4475). This form is used to request DHCS approval for one site certifier to oversee up to 10 service locations for designated clinic types specified in the Provider&hellip;
Older News and Updates
Upcoming Trainings and Events
View Calendar
Provider Orientations
Upcoming orientations:
October 8, 2026
December 10, 2026
February 11, 2027
Visit the Online Training Center webpage for registration information.
Webinars
There are no upcoming webinars at this time.
You can view our most recent webinars here .
Comprehensive Intrauterine Device (IUD) and Contraceptive Implant Training
Date: October 27-28, 2026
Location: 1500 Capitol Ave, Sacramento, CA 95814
Credits: 8 CMEs
Capacity: 60 providers
Cost : FREE
REGISTER HERE
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. Please accept or decline cookies. Accept Decline