Skip to content
Transgender Services
Home / Transgender Services
Transgender Services Priya Kumar 2026-06-26T13:28:36-07:00
Creating a region where Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) people thrive means being an advocate for equity and social justice within and external to the LGBTQ+ community. The identities of LGBTQ+ people are intersectional and breaking down systems of oppression that harm the most marginalized amongst us, benefits all of us.
Transgender community members face unique barriers accessing services and our transgender and non-binary staff and advisors have developed service models for you.
Community Resource Navigation: Community members are free to stop in to use the restroom, access free WiFi and computers, take a brief rest, get a drink of water. Community resource advocates who care will listen intently and strive to help you find whatever transgender affirming resource you need, whether you are looking for mental and medical health professionals, housing, social services, legal aid, or other support programs.
Free Counseling for victims of crime by appointment.
Housing: emergency shelter in a motel for up to 5-nights for 18+ year old transgender people and their families and 3-24 month transitional housing for 18-24 year old LGBTQ+ homeless youth who have been victims of crime.
Free Legal Assistance: name and gender marker changes, health advocacy, crime and discrimination assistance.
Community Events: Transgender Day of Visibility, Sacramento Pride Events, Advocacy Days, Transgender Family Day
Sexual Health Services: free and confidential HIV/STI testing, prevention tools including PrEP, condoms, and sexual health education.
info@saccenter.org | ☏ (916) 442-0185
These programs are funded by the Sacramento County Division of Behavioral Health Services through voter approved Proposition 63, Mental Health Services Act (MHSA), the California Office of Emergency Services (CalOES), City of Sacramento, The California Endowment, The CARES Foundation, and private community donors.
Ways To Give
Get Involved
Get Support
Donate
Newsletter Sign-up
Sign-up for the Sacramento LGBT Community Center Newsletter
Sign Up Now!
Center Highlights
Lavender Heights Assault
09.01.2026 Statement from the Sacramento LGBT Community Center We [...]
This website or its third-party tools process personal data. In case of sale of your personal information, you may opt out by using the link Do not sell my personal information .
×
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie Duration Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT