Public Act 104-0536
HB5095 Enrolled LRB104 17181 SPS 30600 b
AN ACT concerning State government.
Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,
represented in the General Assembly:
Section 5. The Illinois Identification Card Act is amended
by changing Sections 5 and 11 as follows:
(15 ILCS 335/5)
Sec. 5. Applications.
(a) Any natural person who is a resident of the State of
Illinois may file an application for an identification card,
or for the renewal thereof, in a manner prescribed by the
Secretary. Each original application shall be completed by the
applicant in full and shall set forth the legal name,
residence address and zip code, social security number, if the
person has a social security number, birth date, sex and a
brief description of the applicant. The applicant shall be
photographed, unless the Secretary of State has provided by
rule for the issuance of identification cards without
photographs and the applicant is deemed eligible for an
identification card without a photograph under the terms and
conditions imposed by the Secretary of State . The applicant ,
and he or she shall also submit any other information as the
Secretary may deem necessary or such documentation as the
Secretary may require to determine the identity of the
applicant , except as limited under subsection (a-5) . In
addition to the residence address, the Secretary may allow the
applicant to provide a mailing address. If the applicant is an
employee of the Department of Children and Family Services
with a job title of "Child Protection Specialist Trainee",
"Child Protection Specialist", "Child Protection Advanced
Specialist", "Child Welfare Specialist Trainee", "Child
Welfare Specialist", or "Child Welfare Advanced Specialist" or
a judicial officer as defined in Section 1-10 of the Judicial
Privacy Act, or a public official as defined in Section 10 of
the Public Official Safety and Privacy Act, or a peace
officer, the applicant may elect to have his or her office or
work address in lieu of the applicant's residence or mailing
address. An applicant for an Illinois Person with a Disability
Identification Card must also submit with each original or
renewal application, on forms prescribed by the Secretary,
such documentation as the Secretary may require, establishing
that the applicant is a "person with a disability" as defined
in Section 4A of this Act, and setting forth the applicant's
type and class of disability as set forth in Section 4A of this
Act. For the purposes of this subsection (a), "peace officer"
means any person who by virtue of his or her office or public
employment is vested by law with a duty to maintain public
order or to make arrests for a violation of any penal statute
of this State, whether that duty extends to all violations or
is limited to specific violations.
(a-5) The Upon the first issuance of a request for
proposals for a digital driver's license and identification
card issuance and facial recognition system issued after
January 1, 2020 (the effective date of Public Act 101-513),
and upon implementation of a new or revised system procured
pursuant to that request for proposals, the Secretary shall
permit applicants to choose between "male", "female", or "X"
"non-binary" when designating the applicant's sex on the
identification card application form or when changing the sex
listed on an issued identification card . The sex designated by
the applicant shall be displayed on the identification card
issued to the applicant.
For an initial identification card, an applicant shall
designate a sex on the application form. If the applicant's
documents used to establish identity include a sex different
than the sex the applicant has designated, then the applicant
must submit a gender designation form.
An applicant who wants to change the sex listed on an
issued identification card must submit a gender designation
form.
The gender designation form shall only request the
applicant's information, gender designation statement,
attestation, and signature or mark. The applicant's
information required on the form shall be limited to name as
reflected on the applicant's current driver's license or
identification card, if applicable; current driver's license
or identification card number, if applicable; and residential
address of the applicant. The gender designation statement
shall allow the applicant to designate a sex on the
applicant's identification card as "male", "female", or "X".
The attestation shall state that the applicant swears, under
the penalty of perjury, that the request for the selected
gender designation is to ensure that the applicant's
identification card accurately reflects the applicant's gender
identity and is not for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose.
The Secretary of State shall not require any additional
question, documentation, support, certification, or
verification to change a gender marker.
The Secretary of State shall not require any documentation
other than the gender designation form to confirm the sex or
gender identity of the applicant.
(b) Beginning on or before July 1, 2015, for each original
or renewal identification card application under this Act, the
Secretary shall inquire as to whether the applicant is a
veteran for purposes of issuing an identification card with a
veteran designation under subsection (c-5) of Section 4 of
this Act. The acceptable forms of proof shall include, but are
not limited to, Department of Defense form DD-214, Department
of Defense form DD-256 for applicants who did not receive a
form DD-214 upon the completion of initial basic training,
Department of Defense form DD-2 (Retired), an identification
card issued under the federal Veterans Identification Card Act
of 2015, or a United States Department of Veterans Affairs
summary of benefits letter. If the document cannot be stamped,
the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs shall provide a
certificate to the veteran to provide to the Secretary of
State. The Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs shall
advise the Secretary as to what other forms of proof of a
person's status as a veteran are acceptable.
For each applicant who is issued an identification card
with a veteran designation, the Secretary shall provide the
Department of Veterans Affairs with the applicant's name,
address, date of birth, gender, and such other demographic
information as agreed to by the Secretary and the Department.
The Department may take steps necessary to confirm the
applicant is a veteran. If after due diligence, including
writing to the applicant at the address provided by the
Secretary, the Department is unable to verify the applicant's
veteran status, the Department shall inform the Secretary, who
shall notify the applicant that he or she must confirm status
as a veteran, or the identification card will be canceled.
For purposes of this subsection (b):
"Armed forces" means any of the Armed Forces of the United
States, including a member of any reserve component or
National Guard unit.
"Veteran" means a person who has served in the armed
forces and was discharged or separated under honorable
conditions.
(b-1) An applicant who is eligible for Gold Star license
plates under Section 3-664 of the Illinois Vehicle Code may
apply for an identification card with space for a designation
as a Gold Star Family. The Secretary may waive any fee for this
application. If the Secretary does not waive the fee, any fee
charged to the applicant must be deposited into the Illinois
Veterans Assistance Fund. The Secretary is authorized to issue
rules to implement this subsection.
(c) All applicants for REAL ID compliant standard Illinois
Identification Cards and Illinois Person with a Disability
Identification Cards shall provide proof of lawful status in
the United States as defined in 6 CFR 37.3, as amended.
Applicants who are unable to provide the Secretary with proof
of lawful status are ineligible for REAL ID compliant
identification cards under this Act.
(d) The Secretary of State may accept, as proof of date of
birth and written signature for any applicant for a standard
identification card who does not have a social security number
or documentation issued by the United States Department of
Homeland Security authorizing the applicant's presence in this
country, any passport validly issued to the applicant from the
applicant's country of citizenship or a consular
identification document validly issued to the applicant by a
consulate of that country as defined in Section 5 of the
Consular Identification Document Act. Any such documents must
be either unexpired or presented by an applicant within 2
years of its expiration date.
(Source: P.A. 103-210, eff. 7-1-24; 103-888, eff. 8-9-24;
103-933, eff. 1-1-25; 104-234, eff. 8-15-25; 104-417, eff.
8-15-25; 104-443, eff. 1-1-26; revised 1-7-26.)
(15 ILCS 335/11) (from Ch. 124, par. 31)
Sec. 11. Records.
(a) The Secretary may make a search of his records and
furnish information as to whether a person has a current
Standard Illinois Identification Card or an Illinois Person
with a Disability Identification Card then on file, upon
receipt of a written application therefor accompanied with the
prescribed fee. However, the Secretary may not disclose
medical information concerning an individual to any person,
public agency, private agency, corporation or governmental
body unless the individual has submitted a written request for
the information or unless the individual has given prior
written consent for the release of the information to a
specific person or entity. This exception shall not apply to:
(1) offices and employees of the Secretary who have a need to
know the medical information in performance of their official
duties, or (2) orders of a court of competent jurisdiction.
When medical information is disclosed by the Secretary in
accordance with the provisions of this Section, no liability
shall rest with the Office of the Secretary of State as the
information is released for informational purposes only.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the
Secretary may release personally identifying information only
to:
(1) officers and employees of the Secretary who have a
need to know that information for issuance of driver's
licenses, permits, or identification cards and
investigation of fraud or misconduct;
(2) other governmental agencies for use in their
official governmental functions;
(3) law enforcement agencies for a criminal or civil
investigation, except as restricted by subsections (g) and
(h);
(3-5) the State Board of Elections as may be required
by an agreement the State Board of Elections has entered
into with a multi-state voter registration list
maintenance system; or
(4) any entity that the Secretary has authorized, by
rule.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the
Secretary may release highly restricted personal information
only to:
(1) officers and employees of the Secretary who have a
need to access the information for the issuance of
driver's licenses, permits, or identification cards and
investigation of fraud or misconduct;
(2) law enforcement officials for a criminal or civil
law enforcement investigation, except as restricted by
subsections (g) and (h);
(3) the State Board of Elections for the purpose of
providing the signature for completion of voter
registration; or
(4) any other entity the Secretary has authorized by
rule.
(d) Documents required to be submitted with an application
for an identification card to prove the applicant's identity
(name and date of birth), social security number or lack of a
social security number, written signature, residency, and, as
applicable, citizenship and immigration status and country of
citizenship shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed
except to the following persons:
(1) the individual to whom the identification card was
issued, upon written request;
(2) officers and employees of the Secretary of State
who have a need to have access to the stored images for
purposes of issuing and controlling driver's licenses,
permits, or identification cards and investigation of
fraud or misconduct;
(3) law enforcement officials for a civil or criminal
law enforcement investigation, except as restricted by
subsections (g) and (h);
(4) other entities that the Secretary may authorize by
rule.
(e) The Secretary may not disclose an individual's social
security number or any associated information obtained from
the Social Security Administration without the written request
or consent of the individual except: (i) to officers and
employees of the Secretary who have a need to know the social
security number in the performance of their official duties;
(ii) except as restricted by subsections (g) and (h) to law
enforcement officials for a civil or criminal law enforcement
investigation if an officer of the law enforcement agency has
made a written request to the Secretary specifying the law
enforcement investigation for which the social security number
is being sought; (iii) under a lawful court order signed by a
judge; (iv) to the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs for
the purpose of confirming veteran status to agencies in other
states responsible for the issuance of state identification
cards for participation in State-to-State verification
service; or (v) the last 4 digits to the Illinois State Board
of Elections for purposes of voter registration and as may be
required pursuant to an agreement for a multi-state voter
registration list maintenance system. The Secretary retains
the right to require additional verification regarding the
validity of a request from law enforcement. If social security
information is disclosed by the Secretary in accordance with
this Section, no liability shall rest with the Office of the
Secretary of State or any of its officers or employees, as the
information is released for official purposes only.
(f) The Secretary of State shall not provide facial
recognition search services or photographs obtained in the
process of issuing an identification card to any federal,
State, or local law enforcement agency or other governmental
entity for the purpose of enforcing federal immigration laws.
This subsection shall not apply to requests from federal,
State, or local law enforcement agencies or other governmental
entities for facial recognition search services or photographs
obtained in the process of issuing a driver's license or
permit when the purpose of the request relates to criminal
activity other than violations of immigration laws.
(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Secretary may not release highly restricted personal
information or personally identifying information or disclose
documents described in subsection (d) to any immigration
agent, as defined in Section 10 of the Illinois TRUST Act,
unless necessary to comply with the following, to the extent
that production of such information or documents is
specifically required:
(1) a lawful court order;
(2) a judicial warrant signed by a judge appointed
pursuant to Article III of the Constitution of the United
States; or
(3) a subpoena for individual records issued by a
federal or State court.
When responding to such a court order, warrant, or
subpoena, the Secretary shall disclose only those documents or
information specifically requested. Within 3 business days of
receiving such a court order, warrant, or subpoena, the
Secretary shall send a notification to the individual about
whom such information was requested that a court order,
warrant, or subpoena was received and the identity of the
entity that presented the court order, warrant, or subpoena.
(h) The Secretary shall not enter into or maintain any
agreement regarding the sharing of any highly restricted
personal information or personally identifying information or
documents described in subsection (d) unless all other parties
to such agreement certify that the information obtained will
not be used for civil immigration purposes or knowingly
disseminated to any third party for any purpose related to
civil immigration enforcement.
(i) The Secretary may not disclose or reveal the existence
of any gender designation form unless directed to do so by an
order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Source: P.A. 103-210, eff. 7-1-24; 104-234, eff. 8-15-25.)
Section 10. The Illinois Vehicle Code is amended by
changing Sections 2-110, 2-123, and 6-106 as follows:
(625 ILCS 5/2-110) (from Ch. 95 1/2, par. 2-110)
Sec. 2-110. Authority to grant or refuse applications.
The Secretary of State shall examine and determine the
genuineness, regularity and legality of every application for
registration of a vehicle, for a certificate of title
therefor, and for a driver's license and of any other
application lawfully made to the Secretary of State, and may
in all cases , except as limited under subsection (b-3) of
Section 6-106, make investigation and verify the information
and the authenticity of the documents submitted as may be
deemed necessary or require additional information, and shall
reject any such application if not satisfied of the
genuineness, regularity or legality thereof or the truth of
any statement contained therein, or for any other reason, when
authorized by law.
(Source: P.A. 93-895, eff. 1-1-05.)
(625 ILCS 5/2-123) (from Ch. 95 1/2, par. 2-123)
Sec. 2-123. Sale and distribution of information.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the
Secretary may make the driver's license, vehicle and title
registration lists, in part or in whole, and any statistical
information derived from these lists available to local
governments, elected state officials, state educational
institutions, and all other governmental units of the State
and Federal Government requesting them for governmental
purposes. The Secretary shall require any such applicant for
services to pay for the costs of furnishing such services and
the use of the equipment involved, and in addition is
empowered to establish prices and charges for the services so
furnished and for the use of the electronic equipment
utilized.
(b) The Secretary is further empowered to and he may, in
his discretion, furnish to any applicant, other than listed in
subsection (a) of this Section, vehicle or driver data on a
computer tape, disk, other electronic format or computer
processable medium, or printout at a fixed fee of $500, in
advance, and require in addition a further sufficient deposit
based upon the Secretary of State's estimate of the total cost
of the information requested and a charge of $50, per 1,000
units or part thereof identified or the actual cost, whichever
is greater. The Secretary is authorized to refund any
difference between the additional deposit and the actual cost
of the request. This service shall not be in lieu of an
abstract of a driver's record nor of a title or registration
search. This service may be limited to entities purchasing a
minimum number of records as required by administrative rule.
The information sold pursuant to this subsection shall be the
entire vehicle or driver data list, or part thereof. The
information sold pursuant to this subsection shall not contain
personally identifying information unless the information is
to be used for one of the purposes identified in subsection
(f-5) of this Section. Commercial purchasers of driver and
vehicle record databases shall enter into a written agreement
with the Secretary of State that includes disclosure of the
commercial use of the information to be purchased.
(b-1) The Secretary is further empowered to and may, in
his or her discretion, furnish vehicle or driver data on a
computer tape, disk, or other electronic format or computer
processible medium, at no fee, to any State or local
governmental agency that uses the information provided by the
Secretary to transmit data back to the Secretary that enables
the Secretary to maintain accurate driving records, including
dispositions of traffic cases. This information may be
provided without fee not more often than once every 6 months.
(c) Secretary of State may issue registration lists. The
Secretary of State may compile a list of all registered
vehicles. Each list of registered vehicles shall be arranged
serially according to the registration numbers assigned to
registered vehicles and may contain in addition the names and
addresses of registered owners and a brief description of each
vehicle including the serial or other identifying number
thereof. Such compilation may be in such form as in the
discretion of the Secretary of State may seem best for the
purposes intended.
(d) The Secretary of State shall furnish no more than 2
current available lists of such registrations to the sheriffs
of all counties and to the chiefs of police of all cities and
villages and towns of 2,000 population and over in this State
at no cost. Additional copies may be purchased by the sheriffs
or chiefs of police at the fee of $500 each or at the cost of
producing the list as determined by the Secretary of State.
Such lists are to be used for governmental purposes only.
(e) (Blank).
(e-1) (Blank).
(f) The Secretary of State shall make a title or
registration search of the records of his office and a written
report on the same for any person, upon written application of
such person, accompanied by a fee of $5 for each registration
or title search. The written application shall set forth the
intended use of the requested information. No fee shall be
charged for a title or registration search, or for the
certification thereof requested by a government agency. The
report of the title or registration search shall not contain
personally identifying information unless the request for a
search was made for one of the purposes identified in
subsection (f-5) of this Section. The report of the title or
registration search shall not contain highly restricted
personal information unless specifically authorized by this
Code.
The Secretary of State shall certify a title or
registration record upon written request. The fee for
certification shall be $5 in addition to the fee required for a
title or registration search. Certification shall be made
under the signature of the Secretary of State and shall be
authenticated by Seal of the Secretary of State.
The Secretary of State may notify the vehicle owner or
registrant of the request for purchase of his title or
registration information as the Secretary deems appropriate.
No information shall be released to the requester until
expiration of a 10-day period. This 10-day period shall not
apply to requests for information made by law enforcement
officials, government agencies, financial institutions,
attorneys, insurers, employers, automobile associated
businesses, persons licensed as a private detective or firms
licensed as a private detective agency under the Private
Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint
Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004, who are employed by or are
acting on behalf of law enforcement officials, government
agencies, financial institutions, attorneys, insurers,
employers, automobile associated businesses, and other
business entities for purposes consistent with the Illinois
Vehicle Code, the vehicle owner or registrant or other
entities as the Secretary may exempt by rule and regulation.
Any misrepresentation made by a requester of title or
vehicle information shall be punishable as a petty offense,
except in the case of persons licensed as a private detective
or firms licensed as a private detective agency which shall be
subject to disciplinary sanctions under Section 40-10 of the
Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004.
(f-5) The Secretary of State shall not disclose or
otherwise make available to any person or entity any
personally identifying information obtained by the Secretary
of State in connection with a driver's license, vehicle, or
title registration record unless the information is disclosed
for one of the following purposes:
(1) For use by any government agency, including any
court or law enforcement agency, in carrying out its
functions, or any private person or entity acting on
behalf of a federal, State, or local agency in carrying
out its functions.
(2) For use in connection with matters of motor
vehicle or driver safety and theft; motor vehicle
emissions; motor vehicle product alterations, recalls, or
advisories; performance monitoring of motor vehicles,
motor vehicle parts, and dealers; and removal of non-owner
records from the original owner records of motor vehicle
manufacturers.
(3) For use in the normal course of business by a
legitimate business or its agents, employees, or
contractors, but only:
(A) to verify the accuracy of personal information
submitted by an individual to the business or its
agents, employees, or contractors; and
(B) if such information as so submitted is not
correct or is no longer correct, to obtain the correct
information, but only for the purposes of preventing
fraud by, pursuing legal remedies against, or
recovering on a debt or security interest against, the
individual.
(4) For use in research activities and for use in
producing statistical reports, if the personally
identifying information is not published, redisclosed, or
used to contact individuals.
(5) For use in connection with any civil, criminal,
administrative, or arbitral proceeding in any federal,
State, or local court or agency or before any
self-regulatory body, including the service of process,
investigation in anticipation of litigation, and the
execution or enforcement of judgments and orders, or
pursuant to an order of a federal, State, or local court.
(6) For use by any insurer or insurance support
organization or by a self-insured entity or its agents,
employees, or contractors in connection with claims
investigation activities, antifraud activities, rating, or
underwriting.
(7) For use in providing notice to the owners of towed
or impounded vehicles.
(8) For use by any person licensed as a private
detective or firm licensed as a private detective agency
under the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private
Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004,
private investigative agency or security service licensed
in Illinois for any purpose permitted under this
subsection.
(9) For use by an employer or its agent or insurer to
obtain or verify information relating to a holder of a
commercial driver's license that is required under chapter
313 of title 49 of the United States Code.
(10) For use in connection with the operation of
private toll transportation facilities.
(11) For use by any requester, if the requester
demonstrates it has obtained the written consent of the
individual to whom the information pertains.
(12) For use by members of the news media, as defined
in Section 1-148.5, for the purpose of newsgathering when
the request relates to the operation of a motor vehicle or
public safety.
(13) For any other use specifically authorized by law,
if that use is related to the operation of a motor vehicle
or public safety.
(f-6) The Secretary of State shall not disclose or
otherwise make available to any person or entity any highly
restricted personal information obtained by the Secretary of
State in connection with a driver's license, vehicle, or title
registration record unless specifically authorized by this
Code.
(g) 1. The Secretary of State may, upon receipt of a
written request and a fee as set forth in Section 6-118,
furnish to the person or agency so requesting a driver's
record or data contained therein. Such document may include a
record of: current driver's license issuance information,
except that the information on judicial driving permits shall
be available only as otherwise provided by this Code;
convictions; orders entered revoking, suspending or cancelling
a driver's license or privilege; and notations of crash
involvement. All other information, unless otherwise permitted
by this Code, shall remain confidential. Information released
pursuant to a request for a driver's record shall not contain
personally identifying information, unless the request for the
driver's record was made for one of the purposes set forth in
subsection (f-5) of this Section. The Secretary of State may,
without fee, allow a parent or guardian of a person under the
age of 18 years, who holds an instruction permit or graduated
driver's license, to view that person's driving record online,
through a computer connection. The parent or guardian's online
access to the driving record will terminate when the
instruction permit or graduated driver's license holder
reaches the age of 18.
2. The Secretary of State shall not disclose or otherwise
make available to any person or entity any highly restricted
personal information obtained by the Secretary of State in
connection with a driver's license, vehicle, or title
registration record unless specifically authorized by this
Code. The Secretary of State may certify an abstract of a
driver's record upon written request therefor. Such
certification shall be made under the signature of the
Secretary of State and shall be authenticated by the Seal of
his office.
3. All requests for driving record information shall be
made in a manner prescribed by the Secretary and shall set
forth the intended use of the requested information.
The Secretary of State may notify the affected driver of
the request for purchase of his driver's record as the
Secretary deems appropriate.
No information shall be released to the requester until
expiration of a 10-day period. This 10-day period shall not
apply to requests for information made by law enforcement
officials, government agencies, financial institutions,
attorneys, insurers, employers, automobile associated
businesses, persons licensed as a private detective or firms
licensed as a private detective agency under the Private
Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint
Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004, who are employed by or are
acting on behalf of law enforcement officials, government
agencies, financial institutions, attorneys, insurers,
employers, automobile associated businesses, and other
business entities for purposes consistent with the Illinois
Vehicle Code, the affected driver or other entities as the
Secretary may exempt by rule and regulation.
Any misrepresentation made by a requester of driver
information shall be punishable as a petty offense, except in
the case of persons licensed as a private detective or firms
licensed as a private detective agency which shall be subject
to disciplinary sanctions under Section 40-10 of the Private
Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint
Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004.
4. The Secretary of State may furnish without fee, upon
the written request of a law enforcement agency, any
information from a driver's record on file with the Secretary
of State when such information is required in the enforcement
of this Code or any other law relating to the operation of
motor vehicles, including records of dispositions; documented
information involving the use of a motor vehicle; whether such
individual has, or previously had, a driver's license; and the
address and personal description as reflected on said driver's
record.
5. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the
Secretary of State may furnish, without fee, information from
an individual driver's record on file, if a written request
therefor is submitted by any public transit system or
authority, public defender, law enforcement agency, a state or
federal agency, or an Illinois local intergovernmental
association, if the request is for the purpose of a background
check of applicants for employment with the requesting agency,
or for the purpose of an official investigation conducted by
the agency, or to determine a current address for the driver so
public funds can be recovered or paid to the driver, or for any
other purpose set forth in subsection (f-5) of this Section.
The Secretary may also furnish the courts a copy of an
abstract of a driver's record, without fee, subsequent to an
arrest for a violation of Section 11-501 or a similar
provision of a local ordinance. Such abstract may include
records of dispositions; documented information involving the
use of a motor vehicle as contained in the current file;
whether such individual has, or previously had, a driver's
license; and the address and personal description as reflected
on said driver's record.
6. Any certified abstract issued by the Secretary of State
or transmitted electronically by the Secretary of State
pursuant to this Section, to a court or on request of a law
enforcement agency, for the record of a named person as to the
status of the person's driver's license shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts therein stated and if the name appearing
in such abstract is the same as that of a person named in an
information or warrant, such abstract shall be prima facie
evidence that the person named in such information or warrant
is the same person as the person named in such abstract and
shall be admissible for any prosecution under this Code and be
admitted as proof of any prior conviction or proof of records,
notices, or orders recorded on individual driving records
maintained by the Secretary of State.
7. Subject to any restrictions contained in the Juvenile
Court Act of 1987, and upon receipt of a proper request and a
fee as set forth in Section 6-118, the Secretary of State shall
provide a driver's record or data contained therein to the
affected driver, or the affected driver's attorney, upon
verification. Such record shall contain all the information
referred to in paragraph 1 of this subsection (g) plus: any
recorded crash involvement as a driver; information recorded
pursuant to subsection (e) of Section 6-117 and paragraph (4)
of subsection (a) of Section 6-204 of this Code. All other
information, unless otherwise permitted by this Code, shall
remain confidential.
(h) The Secretary shall not disclose social security
numbers or any associated information obtained from the Social
Security Administration except pursuant to a written request
by, or with the prior written consent of, the individual
except: (1) to officers and employees of the Secretary who
have a need to know the social security numbers in performance
of their official duties, (2) to law enforcement officials for
a civil or criminal law enforcement investigation, and if an
officer of the law enforcement agency has made a written
request to the Secretary specifying the law enforcement
investigation for which the social security numbers are being
sought, though the Secretary retains the right to require
additional verification regarding the validity of the request,
(3) to the United States Department of Transportation, or any
other State, pursuant to the administration and enforcement of
the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986 or
participation in State-to-State verification service, (4)
pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
(5) to the Department of Healthcare and Family Services
(formerly Department of Public Aid) for utilization in the
child support enforcement duties assigned to that Department
under provisions of the Illinois Public Aid Code after the
individual has received advanced meaningful notification of
what redisclosure is sought by the Secretary in accordance
with the federal Privacy Act, (5.5) to the Department of
Healthcare and Family Services and the Department of Human
Services solely for the purpose of verifying Illinois
residency where such residency is an eligibility requirement
for benefits under the Illinois Public Aid Code or any other
health benefit program administered by the Department of
Healthcare and Family Services or the Department of Human
Services, (6) to the Illinois Department of Revenue solely for
use by the Department in the collection of any tax or debt that
the Department of Revenue is authorized or required by law to
collect, provided that the Department shall not disclose the
social security number to any person or entity outside of the
Department, (7) to the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs
for the purpose of confirming veteran status, or (8) the last 4
digits to the Illinois State Board of Elections for purposes
of voter registration and as may be required pursuant to an
agreement for a multi-state voter registration list
maintenance system. If social security information is
disclosed by the Secretary in accordance with this Section, no
liability shall rest with the Office of the Secretary of State
or any of its officers or employees, as the information is
released for official purposes only.
(i) (Blank).
(j) Medical statements , or medical reports , and gender
designation forms received in the Secretary of State's Office
shall be confidential. Except as provided in this Section, no
confidential information may be open to public inspection or
the contents disclosed to anyone, except officers and
employees of the Secretary who have a need to know the
information contained in the medical reports and the Driver
License Medical Advisory Board, unless so directed by an order
of a court of competent jurisdiction. The Secretary may not
disclose or reveal the existence of any gender designation
form unless directed to do so by an order of a court of
competent jurisdiction. If the Secretary receives a medical
report regarding a driver that does not address a medical
condition contained in a previous medical report, the
Secretary may disclose the unaddressed medical condition to
the driver or his or her physician, or both, solely for the
purpose of submission of a medical report that addresses the
condition.
(k) Beginning July 1, 2023, disbursement of fees collected
under this Section shall be as follows: (1) of the $20 fee for
a driver's record, $11 shall be paid into the Secretary of
State Special Services Fund, and $6 shall be paid into the
General Revenue Fund; (2) 50% of the amounts collected under
subsection (b) shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund;
and (3) all remaining fees shall be disbursed under subsection
(g) of Section 2-119 of this Code.
(l) (Blank).
(m) Notations of crash involvement that may be disclosed
under this Section shall not include notations relating to
damage to a vehicle or other property being transported by a
tow truck. This information shall remain confidential,
provided that nothing in this subsection (m) shall limit
disclosure of any notification of crash involvement to any law
enforcement agency or official.
(n) Requests made by the news media for driver's license,
vehicle, or title registration information may be furnished
without charge or at a reduced charge, as determined by the
Secretary, when the specific purpose for requesting the
documents is deemed to be in the public interest. Waiver or
reduction of the fee is in the public interest if the principal
purpose of the request is to access and disseminate
information regarding the health, safety, and welfare or the
legal rights of the general public and is not for the principal
purpose of gaining a personal or commercial benefit. The
information provided pursuant to this subsection shall not
contain personally identifying information unless the
information is to be used for one of the purposes identified in
subsection (f-5) of this Section.
(o) The redisclosure of personally identifying information
obtained pursuant to this Section is prohibited, except to the
extent necessary to effectuate the purpose for which the
original disclosure of the information was permitted.
(p) The Secretary of State is empowered to adopt rules to
effectuate this Section.
(Source: P.A. 103-8, eff. 7-1-23; 104-234, eff. 8-15-25.)
(625 ILCS 5/6-106) (from Ch. 95 1/2, par. 6-106)
Sec. 6-106. Application for license or instruction permit.
(a) Every application for any permit or license authorized
to be issued under this Code shall be made upon a form
furnished by the Secretary of State. Every application shall
be accompanied by the proper fee and payment of such fee shall
entitle the applicant to not more than 3 attempts to pass the
examination within a period of one year after the date of
application.
(b) Every application shall state the legal name, zip
code, date of birth, sex, and residence address of the
applicant; briefly describe the applicant; state whether the
applicant has theretofore been licensed as a driver, and, if
so, when and by what state or country, and whether any such
license has ever been canceled, suspended, revoked or refused,
and, if so, the date and reason for such cancellation,
suspension, revocation or refusal; shall include an
affirmation by the applicant that all information set forth is
true and correct; and shall bear the applicant's signature. In
addition to the residence address, the Secretary may allow the
applicant to provide a mailing address. In the case of an
applicant who is a judicial officer, public official, or peace
officer, the Secretary may allow the applicant to provide an
office or work address in lieu of a residence or mailing
address. The application form may also require the statement
of such additional relevant information as the Secretary of
State shall deem necessary to determine the applicant's
competency and eligibility. The Secretary of State may, in his
discretion, by rule or regulation, provide that an application
for a driver's drivers license or permit may include a
suitable photograph of the applicant in the form prescribed by
the Secretary, and he may further provide that each driver's
drivers license shall include a photograph of the driver. The
Secretary of State may utilize a photograph process or system
most suitable to deter alteration or improper reproduction of
a driver's drivers license and to prevent substitution of
another photo thereon. For the purposes of this subsection
(b):
"Peace officer" means any person who by virtue of his or
her office or public employment is vested by law with a duty to
maintain public order or to make arrests for a violation of any
penal statute of this State, whether that duty extends to all
violations or is limited to specific violations.
"Public official" has the meaning given in Section 10 of
the Public Official Safety and Privacy Act.
(b-1) Every application shall state the social security
number of the applicant; except if the applicant is applying
for a standard driver's license and, on the date of
application, is ineligible for a social security number, then:
(1) if the applicant has documentation, issued by the
United States Department of Homeland Security, authorizing
the applicant's presence in this country, the applicant
shall provide such documentation instead of a social
security number; and
(2) if the applicant does not have documentation
described in paragraph (1), the applicant shall provide,
instead of a social security number, the following:
(A) documentation establishing that the applicant
has resided in this State for a period in excess of one
year;
(B) a passport validly issued to the applicant
from the applicant's country of citizenship or a
consular identification document validly issued to the
applicant by a consulate of that country as defined in
Section 5 of the Consular Identification Document Act,
as long as such documents are either unexpired or
presented by an applicant within 2 years of its
expiration date; and
(C) a social security card, if the applicant has a
social security number.
(b-3) The Upon the first issuance of a request for
proposals for a digital driver's license and identification
card issuance and facial recognition system issued after
January 1, 2020 (the effective date of Public Act 101-513),
and upon implementation of a new or revised system procured
pursuant to that request for proposals, the Secretary shall
permit applicants to choose between "male", "female" or "X"
"non-binary" when designating the applicant's sex on the
driver's license or permit application form or when changing
the sex listed on an issued driver's license or permit . The sex
designated by the applicant shall be displayed on the driver's
license or permit issued to the applicant.
For an initial driver's license or permit, an applicant
shall designate a sex on the application form. If the
applicant's documents used to establish identity include a sex
different than the sex the applicant has designated, then the
applicant must submit a gender designation form.
An applicant who wants to change the sex listed on an
issued driver's license or permit must submit a gender
designation form.
The gender designation form shall only request the
applicant's information, gender designation statement,
attestation, and signature or mark. The applicant's
information required on the form shall be limited to name as
reflected on the applicant's current driver's license or
identification card, if applicable; current driver's license
or identification card number, if applicable; and residential
address of the applicant. The gender designation statement
shall allow the applicant to designate a sex on the
applicant's driver's license or permit as "male", "female", or
"X". The attestation shall state that the applicant swears,
under the penalty of perjury, that the request for the
selected gender designation is to ensure that the applicant's
driver's license or permit accurately reflects the applicant's
gender identity and is not for a fraudulent or unlawful
purpose.
The Secretary of State shall not require any additional
question, documentation, support, certification, or
verification to change a gender marker.
The Secretary of State shall not require any documentation
other than the gender designation form to confirm the sex or
gender identity of the applicant.
(b-5) Every applicant for a REAL ID compliant driver's
license or permit shall provide proof of lawful status in the
United States as defined in 6 CFR 37.3, as amended.
(c) The application form shall include a notice to the
applicant of the registration obligations of sex offenders
under the Sex Offender Registration Act. The notice shall be
provided in a form and manner prescribed by the Secretary of
State. For purposes of this subsection (c), "sex offender" has
the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2 of the Sex Offender
Registration Act.
(d) Any male United States citizen or immigrant who
applies for any permit or license authorized to be issued
under this Code or for a renewal of any permit or license, and
who is at least 18 years of age but less than 26 years of age,
must be registered in compliance with the requirements of the
federal Military Selective Service Act. The Secretary of State
must forward in an electronic format the necessary personal
information regarding the applicants identified in this
subsection (d) to the Selective Service System. The
applicant's signature on the application serves as an
indication that the applicant either has already registered
with the Selective Service System or that he is authorizing
the Secretary to forward to the Selective Service System the
necessary information for registration. The Secretary must
notify the applicant at the time of application that his
signature constitutes consent to registration with the
Selective Service System, if he is not already registered.
(e) Beginning on or before July 1, 2015, for each original
or renewal driver's license application under this Code, the
Secretary shall inquire as to whether the applicant is a
veteran for purposes of issuing a driver's license with a
veteran designation under subsection (e-5) of Section 6-110 of
this Code. The acceptable forms of proof shall include, but
are not limited to, Department of Defense form DD-214,
Department of Defense form DD-256 for applicants who did not
receive a form DD-214 upon the completion of initial basic
training, Department of Defense form DD-2 (Retired), an
identification card issued under the federal Veterans
Identification Card Act of 2015, or a United States Department
of Veterans Affairs summary of benefits letter. If the
document cannot be stamped, the Illinois Department of
Veterans Affairs shall provide a certificate to the veteran to
provide to the Secretary of State. The Illinois Department of
Veterans Affairs shall advise the Secretary as to what other
forms of proof of a person's status as a veteran are
acceptable.
For each applicant who is issued a driver's license with a
veteran designation, the Secretary shall provide the
Department of Veterans Affairs with the applicant's name,
address, date of birth, gender and such other demographic
information as agreed to by the Secretary and the Department.
The Department may take steps necessary to confirm the
applicant is a veteran. If after due diligence, including
writing to the applicant at the address provided by the
Secretary, the Department is unable to verify the applicant's
veteran status, the Department shall inform the Secretary, who
shall notify the applicant that he or she must confirm status
as a veteran, or the driver's license will be canceled.
For purposes of this subsection (e):
"Armed forces" means any of the Armed Forces of the United
States, including a member of any reserve component or
National Guard unit.
"Veteran" means a person who has served in the armed
forces and was discharged or separated under honorable
conditions.
(f) An applicant who is eligible for Gold Star license
plates under Section 3-664 of this Code may apply for an
original or renewal driver's license with space for a
designation as a Gold Star Family. The Secretary may waive any
fee for this application. If the Secretary does not waive the
fee, any fee charged to the applicant must be deposited into
the Illinois Veterans Assistance Fund. The Secretary is
authorized to issue rules to implement this subsection.
(Source: P.A. 103-210, eff. 7-1-24; 103-933, eff. 1-1-25;
104-234, eff. 8-15-25; 104-443, eff. 1-1-26.)