Go to Content
Gender
Affirming
Hormone
Therapy
Our expert staff welcome everyone
who needs care.
To book an appointment, call us
at 877-855-7526 or book online today.
Learn More - First Visit and Beyond
Locations / Appointments
We now offer gender affirming care at all PPMM health centers!
To book an appointment, you can call or book online. For online booking, please find the nearest health center , click BOOK ONLINE, and enter "Gender Affirming Hormone Therapy" as the reason for your visit.
Our gender affirming hormone therapy services include
Feminizing Hormone Therapy including estrogen and spironolactone
Masculinizing Hormone Therapy including testosterone
We may be able to start or continue hormone therapy and provide referrals for gender-qualified therapy and resources if needed. If you are on hormone therapy, you can utilize the health center for ongoing care and monitoring.
In order to receive gender affirming hormone therapy services you need to be over 18 (or 16-17 with parental consent) and capable of providing consent for services. There are special consents for these services.
Gender Affirming Services for Youth under 16 at PPMM
At PPMM, we strive to serve every patient to the best of our abilities. We are not currently able to prescribe puberty blockers or gender affirming hormones therapy to youth under 16. Transgender and gender diverse youth are welcome to access the rest of our services, including birth control, STI testing and treatment and more.
Youth who are interested in puberty blockers and/or gender affirming hormone therapy are currently advised to get a referral from their Primary Care Provider (PCP) for services at one of the following:
UCLA Gender Health Program
Website
(310) 267-4334
UCSF Child and Adolescent Gender Center Clinic
Website
(415) 353-7337
Both of these clinics have multidisciplinary teams for supporting transgender and gender diverse youth and their families.
Both accept most insurance plans - with PCP referral - and both offer telehealth appointments, which may make the service more accessible for those unable to travel to Los Angeles or San Francisco.
Learn More - Self Injection
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all