Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Protect Your Parts
The City of Sioux Falls Health Department offers free on-site HIV prevention education and rapid screening tests for the community. These services are designed to help clients, students, and community members "Protect their Parts."
Who Should Get Tested?
The CDC recommends that everyone ages 13-64 be tested at least once as part of routine health care. You should get an HIV test if you are at increased risk for HIV or sexually transmitted infections (STIs) . This includes anyone who has:
Had sex with someone who is HIV-positive or whose status is unknown.
Injected drugs and shared equipment.
Exchanged sex for food, shelter, drugs, or money.
Been diagnosed or treated for an STD, hepatitis, or tuberculosis.
Had sex with someone with any of the above risk factors.
You should also get tested if you have been sexually assaulted or are pregnant or planning to become pregnant.
Testing and Services:
HIV A/B Rapid Screening, Syphilis, Gonorrhea, and Chlamydia testing only.
If you require other STI testing not listed, please schedule with your provider.
Need to wait at least one hour between urinating for a urinalysis test for accuracy
Confidential risk reduction counseling before and after testing.
Treatment is based on test results, client history, exposure, and infection type.
Preliminary positive results are laboratory confirmed, with referrals for additional services and treatment as needed.
You must be 18 years or older; for those under 18, refer to your primary care provider
Clients are encouraged to see a healthcare provider if symptomatic.
If you are concerned or at increased risk of exposure, more frequent testing is encouraged.
Sign of Symptoms
Many STIs have no symptoms or may only cause mild symptoms, so people can have an infection but not know it. Therefore, it is possible to have an infection and not know it.
That is why getting an STI test is important if you are having sex. If you receive a positive STI diagnosis, know that all are treatable with medicine, and some are curable entirely.
Additional Services Provided
The City of Sioux Falls offers comprehensive services to support community health and prevent the spread of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Including:
HIV/STI education
Risk reduction counseling
Free condom distribution
Ryan White Part C
HIV medical care and treatment
Pharmacist consultation
Referrals
Contact Information
Tammi Miles, BSW
Health Program Manager
Phone: 605-367-6533
Email: tammi.miles@siouxfalls.gov
Falls Community Health Walk-In Clinic
521 N Main Ave., Sioux Falls, SD 57104
Phone: 605-367-8793
Temporarily closed - please see other testing options below.
Other Testing Options
South Dakota Department of Health: Offers free testing at 1501 South Highline Avenue, Sioux Falls, SD 57110. Call 605-367-5363
Falls Community Health Provider: Schedule an appointment with a provider for a comprehensive visit (a cost may be associated). Call 605-367-8793 .
Condom Distribution Locations
Lucky's
Silver Moon Bar
Berakah House
Red Rock Inn
Orion Pub
Olivia's
Full Circle Book CO-OP
Back to top