Skip to main content
An Official West Virginia Government Website
State Agency Directory | Online Services | Phone Directory
Forms
West Virginia DMV Forms
Access, download, and print official DMV applications and forms online.
Available Forms
West Virginia residents may view, print, and save applications and forms for
driver's licenses, vehicle titles, registrations, address changes, and other
DMV services. Forms are also available at any
DMV Regional Office .
Searching for a Form
Use the search tool below to find forms by title ,
form number , or category . If you cannot
locate a form, try a partial keyword. Filtering by category can help narrow
your results further.
Viewing & Printing
Click any form title to open it in your browser. All forms are in
Adobe Acrobat PDF format. You may view, print, or save them
using the free
Adobe Acrobat Reader
.
&#9432; Note: A PDF viewer such as
Adobe Acrobat Reader
is required to open these forms. It is available as a free download from Adobe's website.
Form Title
Form Number
Form Category — All Categories — Applications for New License Plate Designs Associations and Organizations License Plates Colleges and Universities License Plates Commercial Driver's License Dealers DMV Annual Reports Drivers General Interest License Plates GHSP Administrative Manuals GHSP Annual Reports GHSP Driver and Awareness Survey GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events GHSP NHTSA Analysis of Crash Data GHSP Performance Plans GHSP Seatbelt Survey Reports GHSP Traffic Records Assessment Insurance Medical and Disability Military License Plates Motor Boats Motor Carriers Safety Vehicles
Clear Filters
Form Title Form Description Form Number Form Category
WV Commerical Driver Licensee (CDL) Medical Self-Certification Affidavit This form is for the CDL Holder to provide Medical Status Self-Certification. DMV-CDL-3 Commercial Drivers License
Buy Here - Pay Here Dealer Affidavit Buy here / pay here affidavit. Used when the dealership and lienholder are the same. Must be submitted by the dealer anytime they serve as both the lienholder and the seller of a vehicle. DMV-86-TR Dealers
NHTSA Analysis of Fatal Crash Data - WV 2007 - 2001 Crash Data NHTSA Form Safety
IRP Affidavit of Renewal Procedures This form explains the rules of renewing an IRP account and when the plates must be returned if not renewing. — Motor Carriers
Medical Report Form This form is used to determine whether an applicant is medically clear to drive. Both the applicant and the physician must sign this form. DLAB-1 Medical and Disability
Vision Specialist's Exam Results and Certification This form is used to determine whether an applicant's eyesight is sufficient to safely drive. An examination must be done by a licensed opthalmologist or optometrist, and both the applicant and physician must sign the form. DLAB-II Drivers
Medical Report Form This form is used to determine whether a CDL applicant meets federal medical guidelines. Both the applicant and the physician must sign this form. DLAB-CDL-1 Commercial Drivers License
Information Release Waiver No description available DMV-100A —
DMV Annual Report 2020 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2020 DMV-AR-FY2020 DMV Annual Reports
Message Forwarding Service (Vehicles) No description available DMV-102 Vehicles
Message Forwarding Service to a WV Driver's Licensee or ID Card Holder Message Forwarding Service for a WV Driver’s Licensee or ID Card Holder DMV-102-DL Drivers
Driving Record Release Authorization This is the Release Authorization form used if you are requesting DMV to release your driving record to anyone other than yourself. DMV-101-PS2 Drivers
Driving Record Release Authorization This form is is used to request a Driving Record and includes the DMV-101-PS2, which is the release authorization form. You must complete form DMV-101-PS2 if you are requesting your driving record be released to anyone other than yourself. DMV-101-PS1 and PS2 Drivers
Request for Vehicle Information Record Request Form. Completed by a customer and submitted to the Records department to obtain specific information. DMV-100-TR Vehicles
Request for Driving Record This is the Request for Driving Record form by itself. DMV-101-PS1 Drivers
Application for Farm-Related Services Industries This form is used to apply for a Farm Use Class B CMV DMV-123-CDL Commercial Drivers License
Voluntary Surrender Letter of a Driver's License or ID This for is used when a person chooses to voluntarily surrender their CDL, Driver's License, or ID Card DMV-123-VSL Drivers
Dealer Vehicle Liability and Property Damage Certificate of Insurance Statement of insurance for use with Dealer License Application DMV-126-DS-J Dealers
Driver’s License Certified Translation No description available DMV-10-DLT Drivers
Expired Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Voluntary Surrender Letter This form is used for Expired CDL Voluntary Surrender DMV-123-CVSL Drivers
Notice of Cancellation of Vehicle Dealer Liability Insurance Statement from Insurance Carrier that a Dealer Policy has been cancelled or no longer in effect. DMV-126-DS-K Dealers
Application for Additional Dealer License Plates Application for a Dealer to apply for additional dealer plates based on sales. DMV-126-DS-O Dealers
Dealer Renewal Application Application to be used by the various dealer types to renew license. DMV-126-E-DS Dealers
Notice of Change in Dealership Application to provide notice to DMV of change in the ownership or location of dealership DMV-126-M-DS Dealers
Application for a Nonprofit Research and Development License Application for Nonprofit Research and Development License DMV-126-NP-DS Dealers
Dealer Inquiry Form Form used by an individual or Dealer to make a complaint against a WV Dealer DMV-128-DS Dealers
Dealer Recovery Fund Complaint Form Application for individual or business to make a claim against a dealer for payment from the Dealer Recovery Fund. DMV-127-DS Dealers
Release of Lien Lien release. Used by a lienholder to release a lien. DMV-12-A-TR Vehicles
Lienholder's Affidavit for Repossession Repossession affidavit/application. Used by a lienholder to repossess a vehicle when the terms of a lien are not upheld. DMV-129-TR Vehicles
Non-West Virginia Residency Statement No description available DMV-12-IND Drivers
Abandoned Motor Vehicle Notice Abandoned vehicle notice. Used by the DMV to inform an entity that their vehicle is currently considered abandoned and provides details and a timeline on what the next steps are. DMV-131-TR Vehicles
Affidavit for Possession of a Junked or Abandoned Motor Vehicle Abandoned/Junk application. Used by a customer to obtain a title for a junked or abandoned vehicle. DMV-130-TR Vehicles
Out-of-State DUI Education and Treatment Verification Form Used to evaluate a non-WV DUI Course DMV-13-IND Drivers
Application for a Church Vehicle Registration Church vehicle registration. Used by a church declaring a vehicle as church use only and therefore not subject to normal registration fees. DMV-158-OB Vehicles
Application for Boat Renewal, Duplicate Decal, Duplicate Registration, and Change of Address Boat renewal/duplicate application. Can be used to renew a boat registration, to request a duplicate registration card or decal, or to update an address in DMV records. DMV-14-TR Motor Boats
Request to Increase Gross Vehicle Weight Vehicle weight increase form. Used to increase the carry weight for a Class B vehicle. DMV-15-TR Vehicles
Owner's Affidavit of an Off-The-Highway Vehicle Owner's affidavit of an off-highway vehicle. Vehicle can only be moved from one job site to another without a load, or for repairs. Must include a picture of the front, side, and rear of vehicle. DMV-168-TR Vehicles
Verification of Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) VIN Verification. Must be completed by law enforcement. DMV-1B Vehicles
Legal Heir Affidavit Legal Heir affidavit. Must include a copy of the death certificate. Can only be used when the deceased did not have a Will. Used to transfer the deceased individual's vehicles into the legal heir's name or to sign on behalf of the deceased individual. DMV-185-TR Vehicles
Supplies Request Form Form used by WV Dealer or License Services to request DMV supplied items from the DMV Warehouse. DMV-18 —
Application for Certificate of Abandoned Title Abandoned Vehicle Title Application. Must be included when attempting to title an abandoned vehicle. One of the documents required by the Abandoned Vehicle Checklist. DMV-1A-TR Vehicles
Purchaser's Affidavit for Duplicate Title Purchaser's duplicate title application. Used by the purchaser to obtain a duplicate title when a vehicle is sold to them and the title is lost or destroyed. Must also be signed by the seller. Also provides the steps to take if a vehicle is listed as "SO DMV-1D-TR Vehicles
Application for Certificate of Title for a Rental Motor Vehicle Rental vehicle title application. Only to be used when titling a rental vehicle. Rental permit number required on application. DMV-1R-TR Vehicles
Sold Vehicle or Watercraft Notice Sold vehicle notice. Can be used by a customer to change the status of their vehicle to "SOLD" in DMV records. Typically we ask that a customer wait 60 days before submitting the document after a sale to provide the purchaser with time to title the vehicl DMV-1-S Vehicles
Application for Certificate of Title for an IRP Motor Vehicle This is the application form to obtain a WV title for an IRP Motor Vehicle. DMV-1-IRP Motor Carriers
Certificate of Inspection Certificate of Inspection. Must be completed by an authorized vehicle inspection station. Upon passing the inspection the vehicle must receive a new inspection decal. This form may be used for a variety of reasons, but it is often used as part of the proc DMV-202-TR Vehicles
Application for Certificate of Title Also known as "Form 1". This is a title application used anytime an out of state vehicle or any regular vehicle (not rental or lease) without a WV title is submitted. DMV-1-TR Vehicles
Affidavit for Titling a Motor Home Vehicle Modified from a Passenger Bus This form is used during the process of titling a motor home created from a passenger bus. To make this conversion the customer is required to modify the passenger bus per WV code to meet motor home standards. They must also include pictures of the modifi DMV-215-A Vehicles
Application for Certificate of Title for a Leased Motor Vehicle Leased vehicle title application. Must include a copy of the lease agreement when submitting. Cannot be used for non-leased vehicles. DMV-1L Vehicles
Application for Cancellation of Title for a Mobile Home Affixed to Real Property Cancellation of mobile home title certificate. Used when a mobile home is affixed to real property. — Vehicles
Application/Certificate for Cancellation of Title for a Mobile or Manufactured Home Affixed to Real Property
Mobile home cancellation. Used to cancel a mobile home title after it is affixed to a permanent foundation. DMV-2-TR Vehicles
Affidavit for Title for Mobile or Manufactured Home Severed from Real Property Used to create a title for a mobile home once it has been removed from a permanent foundation/real property. DMV-2R-TR Vehicles
Trailer Inspection Affidavit Trailer inspection affidavit. Used when changing a Class T trailer to a Class C trailer. DMV-20-VS Vehicles
Alcohol Test and Lock Program - Revocation Interlock Info Informational insert for DUI Revocation notices DMV-308-SE Drivers
WV DUI Information Sheet Arresting Officer's Statement - DUI WVSP FORM 78 / DMV-314 Drivers
Blood Draw Affidavit This form is to be completed by the person conducting the blood draw, as the affiant. Also known as the Blood Draw Affidavit - DUI. DMV-314A Drivers
Affidavit of Correction for a Title or Registration Dealer's affidavit of correction. Used when there is a mistake/discrepancy on a title. Must explain the mistake and provide the correct information. Must be notarized. DMV-35-DL Dealers
Owner's Affidavit of Correction Owner's affidavit of correction. Used when there is a mistake/discrepancy on a title. Must explain the mistake and provide the correct information. Must be notarized. DMV-34-TR Vehicles
Duplicate Registration/Decal/Plate Duplicate request form. Used to request a duplicate registration card, decal, or license plate. DMV-32-TR Vehicles
Application for a 60 day Non-Resident Special Permit 60-day special permit. May be used when an individual is temporarily stationed in WV due to work, etc. DMV-37-TR Vehicles
Application for Refund Completed by a citizen when requesting a refund from the Division for any reason. DMV-38-AB Vehicles
Certification of One and the Same Person One and the same form. Used when there is a discrepancy with a name on the titlework. Example: When a name is listed as a John Smith Jr/Sr/II, etc in one spot and only John Smith in another spot. Must include a copy of the individual in questions ID. DMV-39-TR Vehicles
Application for Parking for an Agency or Organization Transporting Persons with Disabilities Application for Mobility Impaired Placard for an Agency or Organization DMV-41a-TR Medical and Disability
West Virginia Lease Sales Tax Return Lease sales tax return. Provided to the DMV from leasing companies. Must list the number of owned leased vehicles , leasing company info, and a check for tax on those vehicles. DMV-3L Vehicles
Application To Be Included or Removed From Communication Disability List This application is filled out to be included or removed from the Communication Disability List. DMV-41-CD Medical and Disability
Safety Belt Waiver - Physician's Certification of Disability This form is a waiver for drivers with disabilities to have their physician fill out and sign/authorize so they do not have to wear a seat belt. Physician's Authorization - Seatbelt Waiver DMV-41-SB Medical and Disability
Parking Application for a Mobility Impaired Person This is the application for a mobility impaired person to receive a Mobility Impaired Placard or Plate- Individual. Also called a handicap or disability placard or plate. DMV-41-TR Medical and Disability
Odometer Disclosure Statement (Dealers) Dealer's odometer disclosure statement. Used by dealers to legally disclose a vehicle's odometer at time of sale. DMV-43 Dealers
Application for Issuance of a REPLICA License Plate Replica license plate request. Used by a customer to receive an exact replica of a lost/damaged/stolen plate. Different from a duplicate license plate which will only provide you with another plate with the same plate class and expiration month, but new p DMV-43-TR Vehicles
Application for Transfer of a License Plate Transfer request. Used to transfer a license plate from one vehicle to another. DMV-44A-TR Vehicles
Registration Renewal Notice Registration renewal form. Used in lieu of the registration renewal which is mailed out to customers. Can also be used when a customer is getting a new plate on an already titled vehicle. DMV-44-TR Vehicles
Application for an Amateur Radio License Plate Amateur radio license plate application. Individuals applying for this plate must include their FCC license number. This plate will display their FCC license number on it. DMV-42-LE General Interest License Plates
Application for a Personalized License Plate Personalized plate application. Can be used to obtain a personalized version of the standard, patriotic, 9/11, deer wildlife, or standard motorcycle license plate. DMV-42-TR General Interest License Plates
Application for Classic Car License Plate General use classic car plate application. Can be obtained for any vehicle which is more than 25 years old. Can be used like a regular license plate with no restrictions. DMV-46-CC General Interest License Plates
Application for a Wounded in the Line of Duty License Plate Wounded in the line of duty license plate application. Used to obtain a wounded in the line of duty license plate by a law enforcement officer. Must be approved by a chief law enforcement official. DMV-47-A Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Veteran License Plate Veterans Licence plate application. Used to obtain a class A or class G veteran's license plate. Must be authorized by the department of veteran assistance. DMV-48 Military License Plates
Application for a National Guard or Armed Force Reserves License Plate National Guard/Armed Forces reserve license plate application. Used to obtain one of seven license plates, including army national guard, marine reserves, etc. A copy of the customer's active military ID must be included with the application. DMV-47-NGR Military License Plates
Application for a General Interest License Plate General interest license plate application. Used to obtain one of 15 different license plates, such as the pollinator, back the blue, wildlife, etc. DMV-46-TR General Interest License Plates
Application for a Special Second Military License Plate Application for a second military license plate. The 2nd license plate must be the same as a currently owned plate. DMV-48-A Military License Plates
Application for a Purple Heart License Plate Purple Heart license plate application. Used to obtain a purple heart license plate. Must be authorized by the department of veteran assistance. DMV-48-B Military License Plates
Application for a Prisoner of War License Plate Prisoner of war license plate application. Must be authorized by the department of veteran assistance. DMV-48-E Military License Plates
Application for a Pearl Harbor Survivor License Plate Pearl Harbor Survivor license plate application. Used to obtain a pearl harbor survivor license plate. Must be authorized by the department of veteran assistance. DMV-48-C Military License Plates
Application for a Surviving Spouse Special Military License Plate Surviving spouse military plate application. The plate applied for must match the plate the deceased veteran owned. DMV-48F Military License Plates
Application for a Disabled Veteran License Plate Disabled veteran license plate application. Must be authorized by the department of veteran assistance. DMV-48-D Military License Plates
Application for a Disabled American Veterans (DAV) License Plate Disabled american veteran license plate application. Must be authorized by the disabled american veterans, department of WV. Application must be mailed to the disabled american veterans for approval. DMV-48H Military License Plates
Application for an American Legion License Plate American legion license plate application. Must be authorized by the American Legion. Application must be mailed to the American Legion organization. DMV-48-J Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Marine Corps League License Plate Marine corps league license plate application. Must be authorized by the marine corps league. Application must be mailed to the marine corps league. DMV-48G Military License Plates
Application for a Gold Star Family License Plate Gold star family license plate application. Can only be applied for by a parent, spouse, or relative of a deceased service member. Service member information is required along with authorization from the department of veterans assistance. DMV-48-L Military License Plates
Application for a Special Military Retiree Plate Special military retiree license plate application. This application is used for air force, army, coast guard, marine corps, and navy retirees to receive a plate. Must be authorized by the department of veterans assistance. DMV-48-MR Military License Plates
Application for a Special Military Service Award Plate Special military service award license plate application. Can be used to obtain one of 5 license plates, including Air Medal, Bronze Star, Combat Infantry Badge, Combat Medic, and Silver Star. Must be authorized by the Department of Veterans Assistance. DMV-48-SA Military License Plates
Application for a Special Veteran Service Plate Special veteran service license plate application. Used to obtain one of 7 license plates including WWII vet, women vet, and iraq campaign service. Must be authorized by the department of veterans assistance. DMV-48-VS Military License Plates
Application for an Emergency Medical Services License Plate EMS license plate application. Used to obtain an emergency medical services license plate. Form must be authorized by the squad chief. DMV-49 Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for an 82 Airborne Div. Association License Plate 82nd airborne association license plate. Used to obtain the 82nd airborne div. association license plate. Must provide proof that you are a member of the 82nd airborne div. association wv chapter. DMV-49-AB Military License Plates
Application for a Volunteer Fire Fighter License Plate No description available DMV-49A Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Certified Firefighter License Plate Certified firefighter license plate application. Used to obtain the certified firefighter license plate. Must be authorized by the WVU fire service extension office. Application and payment must be mailed to the WVU fire service extension office. DMV-49-B Associations and Organizations License Plates
Medical Review Request Form Used by law enforcement, DMV employees, family members or caregivers to request a medical review DMV-50-CD Medical and Disability
Affidavit of Duplicate Title for a Vehicle or Watercraft Duplicate title application. Used to apply for a duplicate title when the title is lost, never received, etc. Must include a copy of the ID of the individual applying for the title. DMV-4-TR Vehicles
Application for an Alderson-Broaddus License Plate Application for the Alderson-Broaddus license plate. This application along with payment must be sent to Alderson-Broaddus College for approval. DMV-54-AB Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a Beni Kedem Temple License Plate Beni kedem temple license plate application. Used to obtain a beni kedem temple license plate. Applicant can choose numbers between 1001 and 9999 to appear on the license plate. Must be a good standing member of the Beni Kedem temple and must submit the a DMV-54-BK Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Concord College License Plate Concord college license plate application. Applicant can request any number between 1001 and 9999 to display on their license plate. Applicants must either be a graduate of concord college, or a friend of concord college. Application and fees must be mail DMV-54-CC Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a WV Contractors Association License Plate WV contractors association license plate application. Available to anybody. Payment and application must be mailed to the CAWV Scholarship Foundation at the address provided on the form. DMV-54-CA Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Davis and Elkins College License Plate Davis and Elkins license plate application. Must be authorized by a Davis and Elkins representative. Application and fees must be mailed to Davis and Elkins College. DMV-54-DE Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a WV Chiropractic Society Inc. License Plate WV chiropractic society license plate application. Applicant can request a number between 1001 and 9999 to be displayed on the license plate. Applicant must be a member of the WVCS, inc. Application and payment must be sent to WVCS, Inc. DMV-54-DC Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Back the Blue Wounded in the Line of Duty or Surviving Spouse License Plate Back the blue wounded in the line of duty/surviving spouse license plate application. Can only be obtained by those who have a spouse or who themselves were wounded in the line of duty. Must be authorized by an approving authority. DMV-54-BL Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Most Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge License Plate Most worshipful prince hall grand lodge license plate application. Applicant can choose between 1001 and 9999 to display on the license plate. Applicant must be a member of a regular lodge under the Most Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge. Application and DMV-54-GL Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a WV Deputy Sheriff's Association License Plate WV Deputy Sheriff's Association license plate. Applicant can choose between 1001 and 9999 to display on the license plate. Applicant must be an active member of the WV Deputy Sheriff's Association. Application and fees must be mailed to WVDSA License plat DMV-54-DS Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Friends of Coal License Plate Friends of Coal license plate application. Can be used to obtain either a Class A or a Class G license plate. Anybody can apply for this license plate. DMV-54-FC/GF Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for In God We Trust specialty plate In God We Trust license plate application. Anybody is eligible for this license plate. DMV-54-IG General Interest License Plates
Application for a Gas and Oil Association of WV License Plate Oil & Gas Association license plate application. Anybody is eligible for this license plate. Application and fees must be sent to the Gas & Oil Association of WV. DMV-54-GO Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for an Ancient, Free, and Accepted Mason's License Plate Ancient, Free, and Accepted Mason's license plate application. Applicant must be a member of a regular lodge under jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of WV. Application and fees must be sent to the Grand Lodge of WV. DMV-54-MM Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for an Osiris Shrine License Plate Osiris Shrine license plate application. Applicant can choose a number between 1001 and 9999 to display on their plate. Applicant must be current on dues and must pay a $10.00 service fee each year to maintain the plate. Application and fees must be sent DMV-54-OS Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Marshall University License Plate Marshall University license plate application. Applicant must be an MU alumni, student, or friend of MU. Application and fees must be sent to the MUAA. DMV-54-MU Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a Knights of Columbus License Plate Knights of Columbus license plate application. Must be authorized by a qualifying official from the Knights of Columbus. Application and fees must be sent to the address listed on the form. DMV-54-KC Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Lion's Club License Plate Lion's Club license plate application. Anybody is eligible for this license plate. Application and fees must be sent to the address listed on the form. DMV-54-LC Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Rotary International License Plate Rotary International license plate application. Applicant can choose a number between 1001 and 9999 to display on their license plate. Applicant must be a member or spouse of a member of the Rotary International. Application and fees must be sent to the R DMV-54-RI Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Professional Firefighters of WV License Plate Professional firefighters of WV license plate application. Must be authorized by an executive board member who signs the application stating that the applicant is a member in good standing of the IAFF Local. Applicant must be a member of the Professional DMV-54-PF Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a WV Association of Pupil Transportation License Plate WV Association of Pupil Transportation license plate application. Applicant can choose a number between 1001 and 9999 to display on the license plate. The applicant must be a school bus driver, mechanic, or county or state school transportation administra DMV-54-PT Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a Penn State Alumni Association License Plate Penn State Alumni Association license plate application. Applicant must be a member of the Penn State Alumni Association. Application and fees must be sent to the address listed on the form. DMV-54-PS Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a WV League of Postmasters License Plate WV League of Postmasters license plate application. Applicant can request a number between 1001 and 9999 to display on the license plate. Applicant must be an active or retired postmaster in good standing. Application and fees must be sent to the League o DMV-54-PM Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a WV Square and Round Dance Federation License Plate WV Square and Round Dance Federation license plate application. Applicant can choose a number between 1001 and 9999 to display on their license plate. Applicant must be a West Virginia Dancer. Application and fees must be sent to the West Virginia Square DMV-54-SD Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a West Virginia State College License Plate WV State College license plate application. Application and fees must be sent to the WVSC AlumniAffairs Office. DMV-54-SC Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a Virginia Tech Alumni Association License Plate Virginia Tech alumni association license plate application. Any virginia tech alumni, student, or booster is eligible to apply for the plate. Must send check and application to Kanawha Valley Chapter, Virginia Tech ALumni Association. DMV-54-VT Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a Benevolent Protective Order of Elks License Plate Benevolent protective order of elks license plate application. Applicant must be a lodge member or spouse of a member to be eligible for this license plate. Application and fees must be sent to Elks License Plate. DMV-54-WE Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for an Enhanced 9-1-1 Council License Plate 911 council/telecommunicator license plate application. Applicant must be actively employed as a telecommunicator and in good standing. Application and fees must be submitted to the Treasurer, WV Enhanced 911 Council, Inc. DMV-54-TC Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a West Virginia Wesleyan License Plate WV Wesleyan license plate application. Applicant can choose between 1001 and 9999 to display on their license plate. Any graduate, employee, or friend of WV Wesleyan College is eligible for the license plate. Application and fees must be sent to WV Wesle DMV-54-WC Colleges and Universities License Plates
Application for a West Virginia Institute of Technology License Plate WV Tech license plate application. Applicant can request any number between 1001 and 9999 to display on the license plate. Applicant must be a graduate, employee, or friend of WV Tech. Fees and application must be submitted to Tech Golden Bear Alumni Asso DMV-54-WT Colleges and Universities License Plates
Sample Plate Order Form Sample plate order form. This application is used when an entity would like to order a sample license plate. Currently we have 14 license plates available for samples. DMV-54-SMPL Vehicles
Application for a WV Bowler's Association License Plate WV Bowler's association license plate application. Applicant can choose between 1001 and 9999 to display on their license plate. Any WV resident is eligible to apply for this license plate. Application and fees must be submitted to WV Bowler's Association DMV-54-XX Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for a West Virginia University Alumni Association License Plate WVU alumni association license plate application. Applicant must be a current or lifetime member of the WVU alumni association. Non-members who wish to apply for this plate must include a $50.00 fee and designate it as an annual membership or contribution DMV-54-WV Colleges and Universities License Plates
Affidavit of Transfer of Ownership Without Consideration Gift affidavit. Used when gifting a vehicle from one individual to another. Must be notarized. DMV-5-TR Vehicles
Construction of an Assembled Trailer Assembled trailer certificate. Used when titling an assembled trailer. Must be completed and submitted along with a DMV-1-TR. DMV-62-TR —
Application for Farm Use Vehicle Exemption Certificate Used in Vehicle Services to declare a vehicle as "FARM USE" only, allowing the customer to bypass registering their vehicle. DMV-67 Vehicles
Bill of Sale for a Motor Vehicle, Trailer, or Boat (Notary is Required) Bill of sale. Completed by both the buyer and seller. Must be notarized. DMV-7-TR Vehicles
Voluntary Lien Created After Issuance of Original Title Used to add a new lien to an existing title. DMV-84-A Vehicles
Application for Change in Ownership and Control Application for change of ownership. Used when a corporation, etc. has vehicles titled under their name and are transferring those vehicles to another corporation, etc. which is comprised of the same ownership members. DMV-71-TR Vehicles
Individual Lienholder's Fact Sheet Individual lienholder notice. Completed when an individual holds a lien on a vehicle. DMV-85-A Vehicles
Extension of Lien Created After Issuance of Original Title Used when an existing lien on a title is being extended or updated. This form is not used when adding a new lien to a vehicle. That instead would be form DMV-84-A. DMV-84-A1 Vehicles
SAFETY INSPECTION CHECKLIST No description available DMV-8-S Safety
Affidavit for a Sign Language Interpreter/Translator Affidavit for a Sign Language Interpreter / Translator DMV-8-SL Medical and Disability
Affidavit for a Foreign Language Interpreter/Translator Affidavit for a Foreign Language Interpreter DMV-8-FL —
Power of Attorney (POA) Limited or restricted Power of Attorney. Can be used for an individual or entity to complete paperwork required for a specific vehicle. Cannot be used for multiple vehicles or any other business. DMV-9-TR —
Application for Farm Vehicle Driver Exemption Application for Farm Use Vehicle that exceeds 26,001 lbs DMV-CDL-8 Commercial Drivers License
Gender Designation Form This form is used by an applicant to change the gender on their driver's license or identification card to something other than what is listed on the birth certificate or other document . DMV-99-RO Drivers
Change of Address Form Change of address form. Can be used to update your address on a customer's vehicle records and driver's license records. DMV-98-TRB —
EFT Authorization Form used to allow ETF authorization from Licensed WV Dealer to use the VRS System. — Dealers
Application for Commercial Driver's License (CDL) and/or Endorsements CDL or Endorsement addition application DMV-CDL-1 Commercial Drivers License
50-Hour Certification Log for Driver's License Applicants Under Age 18 Used to log driving hours for GDL holders DMV-10-GDL Drivers
Application for a Driver's License or Identification Card This form is used to apply for a driver's license or identification card. DMV-DS-23P Drivers
"Not Intentionally" Allowing Operation of a Motor Vehicle Without Insurance No description available DMV-INS-2 Insurance
Ownership of a Motor Vehicle Involved in an Insurance Violation This form is for use in response to a pending or existing suspension that pertains to the Compulsory Insurance laws. DMV-INS-3 Insurance
"Unknowingly" Operating a Motor Vehicle Without Insurance No description available DMV-INS-1 Insurance
Request for IRP System Access This form is used to request access (user ID and password) to the IRP system for the purpose of setting up an account and paying an IRP bill online. Customers must have a completed Authorized Signatures form in your file in the IRP office and the person DMV-IRP-006 Motor Carriers
IRP Vehicle Registration Form Application to add vehicle to account DMV-IRP-001 Motor Carriers
Removal of IRP Service Provider This form is used to request the removal of an IRP service provider. DMV-IRP-008 Motor Carriers
Authorized Signatures This form designates authorized persons to sign for a company. DMV-IRP-003 Motor Carriers
Mileage and Weight Schedule This form establishes weight for each state. DMV-IRP-002 Motor Carriers
IRP Service Provider Application Form allowing service providers to sign or get information for a company DMV-IRP-007 Motor Carriers
Application for Duplicate Cab Card, Decal, or License Plate This application is to be used when applying for a duplicate apportioned cab card, license plate, or decals. DMV-IRP-004 Motor Carriers
Unlicensed Dealer Complaint Form Form used by an individual or dealer to make a complaint against a potential unlicensed dealer. DMV-IV-UDC Dealers
Low Speed Motor Vehicle Safety Certification Low speed vehicle certification. Completed by those with a LSV when titling and plating or renewing an LSV. DMV-LSV1-TR Vehicles
Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) Certification Special purpose vehicle certification form. Completed by a customer when they would like for the ATV/UTV, etc. to be considered a special purpose vehicle. This form must be completed to obtain an SPV license plate. DMV-SPV1-TR Vehicles
Application for a Certificate of Title for a Motorboat Boat title application. Normally used when titling a boat with an out of state title, certificate of origin, etc. DMV-MB-6 Motor Boats
Certification of Cosmetic Total Loss Cosmetic total loss certificate. Used when a vehicle is cosmetically damaged but does not need to be salvaged and is still able to be safely operated on the street. DMV-SV-5 Vehicles
Salvage Certificate Application Salvage application. Can be used to create a salvage title in the insurance company or other entity name. DMV-SV-1 Vehicles
Political Subdivision Affidavit Political subdivision affidavit which is completed by the entity declaring themselves a PSD. Must be signed by an authorized representative which differs depending on which status they are declaring. DMV-PSA-001 Vehicles
Cancellation of Record - Only West Virginia Title Cancellation of record. Most often used to cancel a title for a mobile home. DMV-SV-14 Vehicles
Salvage Certificate/Owner Retention Salvage certificate for owner retention. Can be used to create a salvage title for a vehicle with the current owner still listed on the title, rather than an insurance company. DMV-SV-6 Vehicles
Vehicle Removal Certificate Vehicle removal certificate. Provides an applicant permission to remove a vehicle from another's property. DMV-VRC-1 Vehicles
Odometer Certification Odometer disclosure. Legal document that can be completed by the seller to confirm a vehicle's odometer reading. Must be notarized. DMV-TM-1 Vehicles
WV Driver's Licenses and Identification Cards (REAL ID) Brochure Informational brochure for West Virginia Driver's Licenses, ID Cards, REAL ID, and residency and identification documents. — Drivers
State of WV Driver's Licensing Handbook Informational booklet for acquiring a driver's license or permit in West Virginia for first time applicants or out-of-state transfers. Includes traffic laws and testing information. — Drivers
Formula for Issuance of Dealer Plates Informational Sheet used by Dealers to determine the number of Dealer plates they are able to have based on sales. DMV-99-DS Dealers
Fraternal Order of Police License Plate Application WV Fraternal Order of Police license plate application. Applicant must be an active dues paying member of the WV Fraternal Order of Police. Application and fees must be submitted to the address listed on the form. DMV-54-LE Associations and Organizations License Plates
Application for International Fuel Tax Agreement (IFTA) Credentials Application for IFTA credentials/decals IFTA-APP-01 Motor Carriers
WV Graduated Driver's Licensing (GDL) Program Flyer This fact sheet gives all necessary information about the Graduated Driver's Licensing process. — Drivers
Renewal Application for International Fuel Tax Agreement This application is used by customers to renew their IFTA agreement. — Motor Carriers
Titling Process for Salvage Vehicles and Reconstructed Vehicles Reconstructed brochure. Provided online and in person to individuals. Provides information on how to go through the reconstruct process for a vehicle that is salvaged. — Vehicles
Identification Card details for WV Citizens Over and Under 21 WV Over and Under 21 Identification Card appearance details for Point of Sale establishment — Drivers
WV Alcohol and Drug Test and Lock (D.U.I. INTERLOCK) Program Application and Information Application for the Interlock Program DMV-21-DU Drivers
WV Based IRP Distance Requirements - IRP Average Distance Form If the fleet was not opened during the renewal time frame and therefore would not have traveled any distance during the reporting period, applicants must use the Average Per Vehicle Distance as indicated on the form and fees will be calculated based on th — Motor Carriers
IRP Renewal Step-By-Step Instructions This form gives instructions on how to renew your IRP account. — Motor Carriers
License Service Surety Bond Form used by License Service for the required surety bond. MV-126-DS-LS Vehicles
Renewal Application for Motor Carrier The form is the Motor Carrier Decal Renewal Form. — Motor Carriers
Affidavit of Builder (Assembled Motor Boats) Assembled boat form. Must be completed when an individual has assembled a motor boat. This form also lists the other forms necessary to title an assembled boat. MB-11-TR Motor Boats
Owner and Purchasing Affidavit Owner and purchaser affidavit. Used when there is no previous title available. Must be notarized. MB-12/13 Vehicles
WV Driver's Licensing Brochure Informational leaflet about Driver Licenses — Drivers
IRP Mileage Audit Record Information Provides the carrier with important information about keeping mileage records DMV-IRP-MA Motor Carriers
Military Skills Test Waiver Used for Even Exchange (MOS specfic) CDL written and skills test waivers, as well as skills test waivers for qualified military CMV experience CDL-ST-WVR Commercial Drivers License
Mobility Impaired Plate and Placard Program Information Informational leaflet about Mobility Impaired Placards — Medical and Disability
Application for Additional Fuel Decals This form allows the customer to apply for a duplicate decal for either IFTA or Motor Carrier. — Motor Carriers
Mission Statement of the Division of Motor Vehicles Describes the mission of the West Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles — —
Surety Bond Form Form used by Licensed Dealers for Surety Bond MV-126-DS-P Dealers
Motorcycle Operator Manual This manual is useful to study prior to testing to obtain a learner's permit. — Drivers
Problem Driver Point System Brochure Informational leaflet about the Points System — Drivers
West Virginia License Plates Posters Electronic version of the DMV posters which list all the currently available general, specialty, and military issue license plates. — Vehicles
Public Notice of Title VI Program Rights No description available — Medical and Disability
Preliminary Application and Eligibility Review for a Non-Profit License Plate Details the steps and code for a nonprofit organization to apply for a new plate design for their organization. — Applications for New License Plate Designs
Opening a New IRP Account This packet includes all the forms and information that the carrier must present in order to open a WV IRP account. — Motor Carriers
Reassignment Supplement Log Sheet Form used by Dealership to Log all used Dealer reassignments DMV-TM-5A —
Affidavit of West Virginia Residency Used in lieu of residency documents when qualified person can attest to residency using there own documents Res/Aff Drivers
Title VI Policy Poster Gives public notice of DMV's policy to uphold and assure full compliance with the non-discrimination requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and related Nondiscrimination authorities. — —
Transportation Network Company (TNC) memo and application An internal memo explaining Transportation Network Companies (TNC) permits and what is required of them to provide prearranged rides. TNC Vehicles
FMCSA Title VI Program 2021 Compliance Program No description available — Medical and Disability
Owner's Statement of Insurance Owner's Statement of Insurance WV-4A Insurance
Seasonal Statement of Insurance Owner's Statement of Seasonal Insurance WV-4B Insurance
Traffic Records Assessment 2016 The traffic records assessment is a NHTSA-supported independent peer review of a State’s traffic records system covering the collection, management, and analysis of the six core data systems: crash, driver, vehicle, roadway, citation and adjudication, and — GHSP Traffic Records Assessment
Vehicle Registration Plate Surrender Form License Plate Surrender Form WV-4S Insurance
West Virginia Uniform Traffic Citation Order Form Uniform traffic citations booklets can be ordered through WV Correctional Industries, using this form. — —
Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Manual - WV & Federal CDL License Manual — Commercial Drivers License
Governor's Highway Safety Program Annual Report 2020 West Virginia must submit an Annual Report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) as prescribed in the federal Uniform Procedures for Highway Safety Programs. This report must include West Virginia’s progress in meeting its highway — GHSP Annual Reports
Governor's Highway Safety Program Annual Report 2019 West Virginia must submit an Annual Report to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) as prescribed in the federal Uniform Procedures for Highway Safety Programs. This report must include West Virginia’s progress in meeting its highway safe — GHSP Annual Reports
West Virginia Highway Safety Plan FFY 2021 The West Virginia Highway Safety Plan (HSP) is a statewide comprehensive traffic safety plan which establishes goals, objectives, and strategies as to how the state will reduce motor vehicle crashes, injuries, and fatalities in West Virginia. — GHSP Performance Plans
The Youth ID Card Progam Youth ID card Informational Leaflet — —
Abandoned Vehicle Checklist Abandoned Vehicle Checklist. Can be used by employees or customers to ensure that all documents necessary to process an abandoned vehicle are submitted. — Vehicles
Abandoned Vehicle Procedure Explains the abandoned vehicle process in detail. — Vehicles
WVOLV - WV Online Insurance Verification Informational leaflet about the WV Online Verification process for insurance — Insurance
Minimum Requirements for a Motor Vehicle Dealer, W/D/R, and Automobile Auction No description available — Dealers
West Virginia Highway Safety Plan FFY 2022 The West Virginia Highway Safety Plan (HSP) is a statewide comprehensive traffic safety plan which establishes goals, objectives, and strategies as to how the state will reduce motor vehicle crashes, injuries, and fatalities in West Virginia. — GHSP Performance Plans
Observational Survey of Seatbelt Use Report 2018 The GHSP performs observational seat belt surveys throughout the state at scientifically chosen locations to determine West Virginia’s seat belt use rate. This report is updated and presented to the federal government annually. — GHSP Seatbelt Survey Reports
Observational Survey of Seatbelt Use Report 2019 The GHSP performs observational seat belt surveys throughout the state at scientifically chosen locations to determine West Virginia’s seat belt use rate. This report is updated and presented to the federal government annually. — GHSP Seatbelt Survey Reports
Surety Bond Form - 100K Form used for License Service Surety Bond for 100 thousand Dollars MV-100-LS Dealers
Application for License Service to Process and Issue Registration Decals Application for a License Service to signup form the DMV Decal program to issue a decal to customers. DMV-101-LS Dealers
Salvage Inspection Schedule The 2024 salvage inspection schedule. Lists the locations, dates, and times of DMV salvage inspections. — Dealers
Application for License Service License Certificate Application to apply for a license to open a License Service. DMV-126-I-DS Dealers
WV County Sheriff Contact List No description available — —
Application for License Service License Certificate Renewal Application to be used to renew License Service license. DMV-126-R-DS Dealers
Dept. of Veterans Assistance Office Locations Lists the addresses of all current department of veteran assistance offices. — Military License Plates
Application for Self-Insurance Application for self-insurance for a person or business that has more than 25 vehicles and over 1 million dollars in total assets DMV-617-SR Insurance
Application for a Disabled Veteran Mobility Impaired License Plate Disabled Veteran Mobility Impaired license plate application. This license plate is only for those who are veterans and who qualify for a handicap plate/placard. Must be authorized by both the department of veteran assistance and a licensed physician. DMV-48-DI Military License Plates
Application for Motor Vehicle Leasing Permit New Lease company application. Used by an entity to apply to engage in leasing vehicles in WV. DMV-4L Dealers
Application for a Former Legislator License Plate Former legislature license plate application. Must be authorized by House or Senate clerk. DMV-55-FL Vehicles
Application for a Legislative/Judicial/Board of Public Works License Plate Judicial, public works, or legislative license plate application. Can be personalized. DMV-55-LJPW Vehicles
Application for a Silver Haired Legislature License Plate Silver haired legislator license plate application. Plate can be personalized. Must be authorized by the Bureau of Senior Services. DMV-55-SHL Vehicles
Observational Survey of Seatbelt Use Report 2021 The GHSP performs observational seat belt surveys throughout the state at scientifically chosen locations to determine West Virginia’s seat belt use rate. This report is updated and presented to the federal government annually. — GHSP Seatbelt Survey Reports
DMV Annual Report 2021 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2021 DMV-AR-FY2021 DMV Annual Reports
Dealer's Notice of Lien Dealer's notice of lien. Completed by a dealer to inform the DMV of a lien on a vehicle they have sold. DMV-85-TR Dealers
ELDT Applicability FMCSA ELDT Flow Chart — Commercial Drivers License
Surety Bond Form used by Lease Company for Surety bond MV-1LB Dealers
Monthly Motor Vehicle Rental Tax Return Monthly Notice of Rental Tax submission. To be completed monthly by all rental companies. DMV-126-MR Vehicles
Affidavit of WV Facility Residency This form is used to establish residency by homeless persons who live in a dedicated shelter. DMV-AFR-22 Drivers
Governor's Highway Safety Program Annual Report 2021 West Virginia must submit an Annual Report to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) as prescribed in the federal Uniform Procedures for Highway Safety Programs. This report must include West Virginia’s progress in meeting its highway safe — GHSP Annual Reports
West Virginia Highway Safety Plan FFY 2023 The West Virginia Highway Safety Plan (HSP) is a statewide comprehensive traffic safety plan which establishes goals, objectives, and strategies as to how the state will reduce motor vehicle crashes, injuries, and fatalities in West Virginia. — GHSP Performance Plans
Preliminary Interest Application for Special Plate - Generic New organization/special interest license plate application. Used in the Special Plate department. This application is used when an entity would like to begin the process of creating a new special interest/organization license plate. DMV-54 Applications for New License Plate Designs
Motor Vehicles Titling Seminar Manual An in-depth training presentation. Used to train employees on correct titling procedures. — Dealers
Observational Survey of Seatbelt Use Report 2022 The Governor's Highway Safety Program performs observational seat belt surveys at scientifically chosen locations. These results are compiled in a report each year. — GHSP Seatbelt Survey Reports
ELDT process - WV DMV WV DMV ELDT insert at Test Card issuance — Commercial Drivers License
DMV Annual Report 2022 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2022 DMV-AR-FY2022 DMV Annual Reports
Medical Examination Report Form No description available MCSA-5875 Commercial Drivers License
Medical Examiner's Certificate Form No description available MCSA-5876 Commercial Drivers License
Application for Relinquishment of Specialty License Plate Application to relinquish a specialty license plate when there is an "and" between the owners. Both owners must sign. DMV-45-TR General Interest License Plates
Application for Use of Antique Military Registration Application for Use of Antique Military Registration DMV-54-AM Military License Plates
Region 1 No description available — GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events
Region 3 No description available — GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events
Region 2 No description available — GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events
Region 5 No description available — GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events
Region 7 No description available — GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events
Region 4 No description available — GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events
Region 8 No description available — GHSP Monthly Calendar of Events
Governor's Highway Safety Program Annual Report 2022 No description available — GHSP Annual Reports
Sample Plate Order Form Sample plate order form. This application is used when an entity would like to order a sample license plate. Currently we have 14 license plates available for samples. DMV-54-SMPL General Interest License Plates
DMV Annual Report 2019 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2019 DMV-AR-FY2019 DMV Annual Reports
DMV Annual Report 2018 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2018 DMV-AR-FY2018 DMV Annual Reports
DMV Annual Report 2017 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2017 DMV-AR-FY2017 DMV Annual Reports
DMV Annual Report 2016 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2016 DMV-AR-FY2016 DMV Annual Reports
DMV Annual Report 2015 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2015 DMV-AR-FY2015 DMV Annual Reports
DMV Annual Report 2014 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2014 DMV-AR-FY2014 DMV Annual Reports
DMV Annual Report 2013 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2013 DMV-AR-FY2013 DMV Annual Reports
DMV-48-HA: Application for a Special Honorary Military Service Award Plate Special military Honorary Service Award license plate application. Can be used to obtain 4 different plates including, Air Force Cross, Distinguished Flying Cross, Distinguished Service Cross, and Navy Cross. DMV-48-HA Military License Plates
Motor Vehicle Rental Agency Certificate An application or renewal form for certification for an agency to rent motor vehicles in WV DMV-126-F-DS Dealers
Application for the Use of an Antique Fleet License Plate For the use of an antique license plate on a fleet of at least 5 antique vehicles. One registration plate will be issued and an individual registration card will be issued for each vehicle. DMV-52-TR Vehicles
WV American Legion Riders' motorcycle plate preliminary interest form Preliminary Interest Application for Specialty Issue Motorcycle License Plate: WV American Legion Riders DMV-54-PIA-ALR Applications for New License Plate Designs
Application for WV Association of Realtors License Plate Preliminary Interest Application for Specialty Issue License Plate: WV Assoc. of Realtors DMV-54-PIA-WVAR Applications for New License Plate Designs
GSBDC License Plate Preliminary Interest Application Application for Specialty Issue License Plate: Girl Scouts DMV-54-PIA-GS Applications for New License Plate Designs
Non-Resident Business Title Assignment Clearinghouse form for non-resident business title assignment MV-102-CH Vehicles
Clearinghouse 250K Surety Bond Clearinghouse form for $250,000 surety bond MV-100-CH Vehicles
Application for Clearinghouse Non-Resident Business Participation Clearinghouse form for non-resident business participation MV-101-CH Vehicles
Traffic Records Assessment 2022 The traffic records assessment is a NHTSA-supported independent peer review of a State’s traffic records system covering the collection, management, and analysis of the six core data systems: crash, driver, vehicle, roadway, citation and adjudication ... — GHSP Traffic Records Assessment
Traffic Records Assessment 2012 The traffic records assessment is a NHTSA-supported independent peer review of a State’s traffic records system covering the collection, management, and analysis of the six core data systems: crash, driver, vehicle, roadway, citation and adjudication ... — GHSP Traffic Records Assessment
No description available — —
WV Certificate of Insurance Sample and Specifications West Virginia Certificate of Insurance Sample and Specifications WV-1B Insurance
NIST Level 2 Letter of Attestation Letter of Attestation MV-104-CH Vehicles
InfoSec Questionnaire Clearinghouse Information Security Questionnaire MV-105-CH Vehicles
Preliminary interest application for Hoops Family Children's Hospital Preliminary interest application for Hoops Family Children's Hospital DMV-54 Applications for New License Plate Designs
West Virginia Highway Safety Plan FFY 2024-2026 The West Virginia Triennial Highway Safety Plan (HSP) is a statewide comprehensive traffic safety plan which establishes goals, objectives, and strategies as to how the state will reduce motor vehicle crashes, injuries, and fatalities in West Virginia. — GHSP Performance Plans
Observational Survey of Seatbelt Use Report 2023 No description available — GHSP Seatbelt Survey Reports
Governor's Highway Safety Program Annual Report 2023 West Virginia must submit an Annual Report to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) as prescribed in the federal Uniform Procedures for Highway Safety Programs. This report must include West Virginia’s progress in meeting its highway safe — GHSP Annual Reports
DMV Annual Report 2023 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2023 DMV-AR-FY2023 DMV Annual Reports
GHSP Administrative Manual 2023 The mission of the WVGHSP is to reduce crashes, injuries and fatalities on West Virginia’s roadways by encouraging, promoting and supporting highway safety throughout the state. — GHSP Administrative Manuals
WV GHSP Driver Attitude and Awareness Survey 2022 No description available — GHSP Driver and Awareness Survey
Application for an Antique Motorcycle License Plate Antique motorcycle license plate application. Can only be used for motorcycles which are more than 35 years old. Applicant must choose whether they would like a restricted or general use plate. Customer can provide their own license plate, provided the is DMV-56-TR Vehicles
Registration Fees Brochure The registration fees brochure. This brochure is provided to customers online and in person and details the fees for the most common license plates, including breakdowns of what each plate is used for and if the fee is prorated based on time of issuance. — Vehicles
Application for the Use of an Antique License Plate Application which allows an individual to use an already owned antique license plate on their vehicle. The applicant can choose for the plate to either be a restricted use plate or a general use plate. The plate's year of issuance must match the year of t DMV-53-TR Vehicles
Surety Bond Form Rental Agency Form used by rental agencies for surety bond MV-126-DS-R Dealers
Vehicle Removal Certificate Vehicle removal certificate. Provides an applicant permission to remove a vehicle from another's property. DMV-VRC-1A Vehicles
Facts Sheet on mCDL Use of mCDL promotion for CDL testing — Commercial Drivers License
No description available — —
2024 Commercial Vehicle Manual No description available — —
WV Current Driver's License Samples Comparison of current WV driver's licenses and ID cards — Drivers
DMV-54-HC_hoops hospital-License-Plate-Application-wf DMV-54-HC_hoops hospital-License-Plate-Application-wf DMV-54-HC General Interest License Plates
DMV-54-RA_WV-realtors-association-License-Plate-Application-wf DMV-54-RA_WV-realtors-association-License-Plate-Application-wf DMV-54-RA Associations and Organizations License Plates
DMV Annual Report 2024 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2024 DMV-AR-FY2024 DMV Annual Reports
2025 Commercial Vehicle Manual No description available — Motor Carriers
Dealer Verification of VIN VIN Verifcation for Delars DMV-90-TR Dealers
Motor Carrier Road Tax (MCRT) Registration Application IRP Motor Carrier Road Tax Reg.pdf DMV100 Motor Carriers
DMV Annual Report 2025 Annual Report for DMV, Fiscal Year 2025 DMV-AR-FY2025 DMV Annual Reports
Application for a Distinguished Medal of Valor License Plate Distinguished Medal of Valor license plate application. Must be authorized by the WV First Responders Honor Board. DMV-48-M Military License Plates
No forms match your search criteria.
5707 MacCorkle Avenue, SE
Charleston , WV 25304
United States
ADA Information
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Locations
Title VI
West Virginia Code
WV DOT Privacy Notices
Get in Touch
Hi there! 👋 I'm the WVDOT Public Assistant. How can I help you today?
WVDOT Public Assistant
ONLINE
Establishing Connection...
Disclaimer: The information provided is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute legal advice. The WVDOT does not assume liability for actions taken based on the Assistant's responses.
Privacy, Security and Accessibility | WV.gov | USA.gov | © 2026 State of West Virginia