Stand With Trans Coloradans
This November, Colorado voters will decide on Propositions 134 and 135, two anti-trans propositions that threaten the freedom, privacy, and dignity of transgender young people and their families.
Prop 134 targets transgender students who want to participate in school sports, opening the door to invasive scrutiny of young people. Prop 135 would restrict access to gender-affirming health care and interfere with private medical decisions that belong to families and their health care providers.
One Colorado Education Fund is working alongside Families Not Politics to ensure Coloradans understand what these measures would mean for transgender youth, families, and communities across our state.
LEARN MORE & TAKE ACTION
By clicking “Accept All Cookies” , you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. View our Privacy Policy for more information.
Preferences Deny Accept
Privacy Preference Center
When you visit websites, they may store or retrieve data in your browser. This storage is often necessary for the basic functionality of the website. The storage may be used for marketing, analytics, and personalization of the site, such as storing your preferences. Privacy is important to us, so you have the option of disabling certain types of storage that may not be necessary for the basic functioning of the website. Blocking categories may impact your experience on the website.
Reject all cookies Allow all cookies
Manage Consent Preferences by Category
Essential
Always Active
These items are required to enable basic website functionality.
Marketing
Essential
These items are used to deliver advertising that is more relevant to you and your interests. They may also be used to limit the number of times you see an advertisement and measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. Advertising networks usually place them with the website operator’s permission.
Personalization
Essential
These items allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your user name, language, or the region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personal features. For example, a website may provide you with local weather reports or traffic news by storing data about your current location.
Analytics
Essential
These items help the website operator understand how its website performs, how visitors interact with the site, and whether there may be technical issues. This storage type usually doesn’t collect information that identifies a visitor.
Confirm my preferences and close
Working together for a fair and just Colorado
One Colorado is the state’s leading advocacy organization dedicated to advancing equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQIA+) Coloradans and their families.
Building a brighter future for LGBTQIA+ Coloradans and their families
One Colorado is advancing equity and freedom for our LGBTQIA+ community through state policy, advocacy, health care, and education.
We progress the lived and legal equality for LGBTQIA+ Coloradans to ensure our community&#x27;s voices are heard and represented within halls of power—so that every Coloradan has the opportunity to thrive.
Families, Not Politics
Transgender young people deserve the same freedom as every kid to grow up supported by their families. Propositions 134 and 135 give the government too much power over personal decisions that should be left to parents, doctors, schools, and trusted experts.
Learn more about Families Not Politics
Donate
Invest in a Colorado where LGBTQIA+ people and our families can thrive. Your support powers education, advocacy, and community-driven change across our state.
Donate
Volunteer with Us
Turn your support into action for LGBTQIA+ Coloradans. Volunteer with One Colorado to educate, connect, and strengthen communities across our state.
Volunteer
Sign the Pledge to Defend Trans Rights
Stand with transgender Coloradans and help build a state where everyone can live authentically, access the care they need, and thrive in their communities.
Defend Trans Rights
Progress we&#x27;ve made
Codified 18 pieces of pro-equality legislation into Colorado law protecting LGBTQ+ Coloradans
For over 12 years, One Colorado has effectively advocated for LGBTQ+ Coloradans and their families by lobbying the General Assembly, executive branch, and local governments on issues like safe schools, transgender equality, relationship recognition, and LGBTQ+ health and human services.
Protected and expanded trans healthcare in Colorado
In 2023, we partnered with state leaders to incorporate gender-affirming care into both the Colorado Insurance Benchmark Plan and the Colorado Medicaid policy. Additionally, we partnered with the Safe Access to Health Care Coalition to enact SB23-188, a law ensuring protection for all involved in gender-affirming care in Colorado.
In 2022, One Colorado Action Fund endorsed 52 pro-equality candidates
The OneCO PAC endorsed 52 State Legislative candidates in 2022, including 8 LGBTQ+ candidates. Additionally, we endorsed 8 candidates in statewide races, a first for One Colorado.
We promote equality for all LGBTQ+ Coloradans and their families
As an advocacy organization, we engage the community through trainings, presentations, educational resources, and volunteer opportunities so that all Coloradans can have access and agency to further the LGBTQ+ movement.
LGBTQ+ Health Equity
Through targeted advocacy and data-driven education, we confront distinctive health challenges, such as discrimination and stigma, that hinder LGBTQ+ Coloradans from achieving affirming and healthy lives.
LGBTQ+ Youth & Young Adults
We’re addressing the unique challenges faced by LGBTQ+ youth, our team provides essential resources, mentorship, and advocacy, helping schools and youth organizations to foster inclusive environments, while creating supportive connections through initiatives and statewide collaborations.
Civic Engagement
Our team fosters community unity and promotes equality through civic engagement initiatives, encouraging volunteerism, electoral organizing, and building relationships among LGBTQ+ Coloradans and allies.
Policy
We advocate for inclusive state, local, and federal policies to combat discrimination and promote equality in critical areas such as LGBTQ+ health, legal rights, older adults, youth and families, racial justice, transgender, and gender expansive equality.
Learn more about our advocacy efforts
See where your representatives stand
Our team & board
Our passionate team and dedicated board members are united in their commitment to championing LGBTQ+ rights and equality in Colorado.
Meet our team
The latest news
Press & Updates
Upcoming Event
Freedom for All: Prism Awards
The Prism Awards is One Colorado’s annual gala to honor individuals and organizations who have made a substantive difference in the lives of LGBTQIA+ Coloradans and their families.
Blog
One Colorado PAC Endorses Pro-Equality Candidates for the 2026 Election
The One Colorado PAC today announced its endorsements of pro-equality candidates running for office in Colorado’s November 3, 2026, General Election.
Pride
Colorado Pride 2026
Happy PRIDE, Colorado! Join us as we celebrate across the state at these upcoming Pride events near you!
Stay in the know
Get updates on LGBTQIA+ news, events, and ways to be involved!
303 E. 17th Ave, Suite 400, Denver, CO 80203
(303) 396-6170 info@one-colorado.org
One Colorado
Our Focus
Take Action
Progress
Resources
Programs
Latest
Donate
Events
Action Fund
State Advocacy
Legislative Reports
Legislation Tracker
Endorsements
Donate
General
Team
Careers
Contact
Board Login
Branding and website by Luum Studio
Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Service Cookies Settings