PCS Code: PNP
TCS Code: PNPRApproved, SCAO
Form PC 51c, Rev. 5/25
MCL 333.2872, MCL 711.1, MCL 711.3, MCR 3.613
Page 1 of 4
For help filling out this form, go to michiganlegalhelp.orgSTATE OF MICHIGAN
JUDICIAL CIRCUIT - FAMILY DIVISION
COUNTY
PETITION FOR NAME CHANGE AND
EX PARTE REQUEST FOR
NONPUBLICATION AND
CONFIDENTIAL RECORD
CASE NO. and JUDGE
Court address Court telephone no.
In the matter of Current first, middle, and last name(s) (type or print)Petitioner’s name, address, and telephone no. Petitioner’s attorney, bar no., address, and telephone no.
Y
ou must complete form PC 51 or PC 51c to begin a name change proceeding. Use form PC 51, Petition for Name change, unless you have
good cause not to publish notice of your name change proceeding, such as you believe publication of the notice of hearing will put you or
another individual in danger of physical harm, or at risk of unlawful retaliation or discrimination. If you have good cause, use this form,
PC 51c, Petition for Name Change and Ex Parte Request for Nonpublication and Confidential Record.
1. An action within the jurisdiction of the family division of circuit court involving the family or family members of
person(s) named above has been previously filed in Court,
Case Number , was assigned to Judge ,
and remains is no longer pending.
2. Each person for whom a name change is sought has been a resident of the county for at least one year.
3. The name change is for
a. a married person who wishes to also include a name change for their spouse. minor child(ren) of
whom the petitioner has legal custody.
b. an adult only.
c. a minor only.
4. The petition includes a request to change a minor’s name. The minor’s natural or adopted parents are
Parent Deceased and Parent Deceased.
As applicable, the guardian of the minor is Name and/or the guardian of a
mentally incompetent parent is Name . (Attach letters of guardianship.)
5. As to a minor, one or more of the following is the petitioner or consents to the name change: (Check all that apply.)
the parents, jointly. the sole surviving parent. the only available parent if that parent has legal
custody. the guardian of the minor. the guardian of a parent declared mentally incompetent.
6. The name change is for the following reason:
7. The name change is not sought for any fraudulent intent.
8. The petitioner has does not have a criminal record, including pending charges. Specify any record:
(Add sheets if needed.)
9. a. The petitioner’s spouse and/or minor child(ren) has/have no known criminal record, including pending charges.
b. The known criminal record(s) of the petitioner’s spouse and/or minor child(ren) is/are: (Add sheets if needed.)
Petition for Name Change and Ex Parte Request for Nonpublication and Confidential Record (5/25)
Page 2 of 4
Case No.
Note: Skip item 10 if the noncustodial parent consents to the name change or if there is not a noncustodial parent.
10. The custodial parent of the/each minor consents to the name change of the minor(s).
a. The noncustodial parent has had the ability to visit, contact, or communicate with the minor(s) and has
regularly and substantially failed or neglected to do so for a period of two years or more before the filing of
this petition and either:
a support order has been entered, and the noncustodial parent has failed to substantially comply with the
order for a period of two years or more before the filing of this petition; or
a support order has not been entered and the noncustodial parent, having the ability to support or assist in
supporting the minor(s), has failed or neglected to provide regular and substantial support for two years or
more before the filing of this petition.
b. The noncustodial parent has been convicted of child abuse (MCL 750.136b), criminal sexual conduct (MCL 750.520b,
750.520c, 750.520d, or 750.520e), or assault with intent to commit criminal sexual conduct (MCL 750.520g) and the
minor(s) or a sibling of the minor(s) was the victim. (Attach judgment of sentence.)
c. The noncustodial parent has been convicted of first degree murder (MCL 750.316) or second degree murder
(MCL 750.317). (Attach judgment of sentence.)
11. I request the following name change(s): (Type or print.)
FROM (current name) TO (proposed name) DATE OF BIRTH
Petitioner
First: First:
Put DOB in Ref. No. row 10 on MC 97a.Middle: Middle:
Last: Last:
Spouse
First: First:
Put DOB in Ref. No. row 11 on MC 97a.Middle: Middle:
Last: Last:
Minor child
First: First:
Put DOB in Ref. No. row 12 on MC 97a.Middle: Middle:
Last: Last:
Minor child
First: First:
Put DOB in Ref. No. row 13 on MC 97a.Middle: Middle:
Last: Last:
Minor child
First: First:
Put DOB in Ref. No. row 14 on MC 97a.Middle: Middle:
Last: Last:
Note: If you want a new live birth certificate, check item 12. A special order is not needed if you only want to add the changed name(s) to the original
certificate(s).
12. I request the court to order the State Registrar to create a new live birth certificate that does not disclose the name(s)
of Name(s) at birth and to seal the original certificate.
13. I request an ex parte order directing nonpublication and a confidential record. Evidence supporting good cause for
this request is set forth in the statement of good cause included with this petition.
I declare under the penalties of perjury that this petition has been examined by me and that its contents are true to the best
of my information, knowledge, and belief.
Date Petitioner’s signature
Petitioner’s attorney signature
Petition for Name Change and Ex Parte Request for Nonpublication and Confidential Record (5/25)
Page 3 of 4
Case No.
I state the following as evidence of good cause for the court to order that no publication about this proceeding be
published and that the record of the proceeding be confidential.
1. Publication of notice or the availability of the record of this proceeding could place
me Name
a. in physical danger or at greater likelihood of physical danger.
b. at risk of unlawful discrimination or retaliation.
2. The basis of the fear or belief is that I Name
a. am/is a victim of an assaultive crime, domestic violence, harassment, human trafficking, or stalking.
b. seek(s) to affirm gender identity.
c. other.
3. Please provide details concerning the responses above:
Note: The court must not require proof of an arrest or prosecution to reach a finding of good cause.
Date Signature
Name (type or print)
STATEMENT OF GOOD CAUSE
Petition for Name Change and Ex Parte Request for Nonpublication and Confidential Record (5/25)
Page 4 of 4
Case No.
Date Date
Signature Signature
Name (type or print) Name (type or print)
Address Address
City, state, zip Telephone no. City, state, zip Telephone no.
If the petition is filed for a spouse, this consent must be signed by the spouse of the petitioner.
I am the spouse of the petitioner and consent to the granting of this petition to change my name.
Date
Signature Attorney signature
Name (type or print) Attorney name (type or print) Bar no.
Address Address
City, state, zip Telephone no. City, state, zip Telephone no.
If 14 years old or older, a minor must give written consent to their name change. (Form PC 51b may also be used.)
I am a minor and subject of the petition. I consent to the granting of this petition to change my name.
Date
Signature
Name (type or print)
I am a minor and subject of the petition. I consent to the granting of this petition to change my name.
Signature
Name (type or print)
SIGNATURE OF PARENT/GUARDIAN FOR MINOR
CONSENT BY SPOUSE OF PETITIONER
CONSENT BY MINOR
CONSENT BY MINOR
Date