&sect; 143C-6-5.6. Limitation on use of State funds for gender transition procedures.
(a) The following definitions apply in this section:
(1) Cross-sex hormones. - As defined in G.S. 90-21.150.
(2) Minor. - As defined in G.S. 90-21.150.
(3) Puberty-blocking drugs. - As defined in G.S. 90-21.150.
(4) Surgical gender transition procedure. - As defined in G.S. 90-21.150.
(b) No State funds may be used, directly or indirectly, for the performance of or in furtherance of surgical gender transition procedures, or to provide puberty-blocking drugs or cross-sex hormones to a minor, or to support the administration of any governmental health plan or government-offered insurance policy offering surgical gender transition procedures, puberty-blocking drugs, or cross-sex hormones to a minor.
(b1) No State funds may be used, directly or indirectly, for the performance of or in furtherance of surgical gender transition procedures, or to provide puberty-blocking drugs or cross-sex hormones to any prisoner incarcerated in the State prison system or the Statewide Misdemeanor Confinement Program or otherwise in the custody of the Department of Adult Correction, or to support the administration of any governmental health plan or government-offered insurance policy offering surgical gender transition procedures, puberty-blocking drugs, or cross-sex hormones to any prisoner incarcerated in the State prison system or the Statewide Misdemeanor Confinement Program or otherwise in the custody of the Department of Adult Correction. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent State funds from being used, directly or indirectly, to address medical complications resulting in imminent physical harm, including the treatment of any infection, injury, disease, or disorder that has been caused by or exacerbated by a previously performed or privately funded gender transition procedure.
(c) Expired pursuant to the terms of Session Laws 2023-111, s. 5, effective November 14, 2025. See notes. (2023-111, s. 3; 2025-84, s. 3(a).)