LGBTQ+ Project
Office: (317) 829-3180
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
1
Rev. 8.7.25
This Packet Has Instructions and Forms to Help You Change Your IDs
Here’s a quick guide for how to change your IDs:
1. Change Your Name on Your IDs
• After you get your name change court order, you can update your name on your
IDs.
2. Change Your Gender Marker on Some IDs
• You can change your gender marker on some IDs, but not all of them. Below is a
chart that shows which IDs can be changed.
ID Type Can you change gender marker?
Indiana Driver’s License or state ID Yes (M or F)
Indiana Birth Certificate No
Social Security Records No
U.S. Passport Yes (M, F or X)
Other State Birth Certificate Check with the state you were born in.
3. Steps for Changing Your IDs
Important: The BMV has proposed rule changes that if approved, would stop gender
marker changes on Indiana driver’s licenses and state IDs. Because of this, you
should act as soon as possible if you want to change the gender marker on your BMV-
issued ID. You can do this now by using the BMV’s form called “Physician’s Statement
of Gender Change – State Form 55617” (this form is in your packet) and use your
current legal name. Once you get your court-ordered name change, you can go back
and change the name on your driver’s license. If you need help finding a doctor, just
contact me.
Steps ID Type and Change Important Instructions
Step 1 Social Security Records – Name
Change
Wait 1 business day, then go to
Step 2
Step 2 BMV Driver’s License/state ID – Name
Change and Gender Marker Change
Use Physician’s Statement of
Gender Change Form
After
Step 2 Other IDs You can update the rest of your
IDs in any order.
LGBTQ+ Project
Office: (317) 829-3180
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
2
Rev. 8.7.25
How to Change Your Name with Social Security
You’ll change your name by requesting a replacement Social Security card.
Step 1: Fill out an application
 Fill out form SS-5 (you’ll find this form in your packet), or
 Complete the online application at www.ssa.gov/number-card
• After completing the online application, you must visit your local Social
Security office within 45 days.
Step 2: Go to your local Social Security office
 Find your local office at secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp
 You may need to make an appointment. You can do that at
www.ssa.gov/manage-benefits/make-an-appointment
 Bring the following documents:
• Proof of identity (such as your state ID, driver’s license, or U.S. Passport)
• Form SS-5 (if you didn’t do the application online)
• A certified copy of your name change court order
Gender Marker Change for Social Security
Right now, you cannot change your sex/gender marker in Social Security records.
SOCIAL SECURITY CARD
Form SS-5 (12-2024) UF
Discontinue Prior Editions
Social Security Administration
Page 1 of 5
OMB No. 0960-0066
Application for a Social Security Card
Applying for a Social Security Card is free!
USE THIS APPLICATION TO:
Apply for an original Social Security card
Apply for a replacement Social Security card
Change or correct information on your Social Security number record
IMPORTANT: You MUST provide a properly completed application and the required evidence before we can process
your application. We can only accept original documents or documents certified by the custodian of the original record.
Notarized copies or photocopies which have not been certified by the custodian of the record are not acceptable. We
will return any documents submitted with your application. For assistance call us at 1-800-772-1213 or visit our
website at www.socialsecurity.gov.
Original Social Security Card
To apply for an original card, you must provide at least two documents to prove age, identity, and U.S. citizenship or
current lawful, work-authorized immigration status. If you are not a U.S. citizen and do not have DHS work
authorization, you must prove that you have a valid non-work reason for requesting a card. See page 2 for an
explanation of acceptable documents.
NOTE: If you are age 12 or older and have never received a Social Security number, you must apply in person.
Replacement Social Security Card
To apply for a replacement card, you must provide one document to prove your identity. If you were born outside the
U.S., you must also provide documents to prove your U.S. citizenship or current, lawful, work-authorized status. See
page 2 for an explanation of acceptable documents.
Changing Information on Your Social Security Record
To change the information on your Social Security number record (i.e., a name or citizenship change, or corrected
date of birth) you must provide documents to prove your identity, support the requested change, and establish the
reason for the change. For example, you may provide a birth certificate to show your correct date of birth. A document
supporting a name change must be recent and identify you by both your old and new names. If the name change
event occurred over two years ago or if the name change document does not have enough information to prove your
identity, you must also provide documents to prove your identity in your prior name and/or in some cases your new
legal name. If you were born outside the U.S. you must provide a document to prove your U.S. citizenship or current
lawful, work-authorized status. See page 2 for an explanation of acceptable documents.
LIMITS ON REPLACEMENT SOCIAL SECURITY CARDS
Public Law 108-458 limits the number of replacement Social Security cards you may receive to 3 per calendar year
and 10 in a lifetime. Cards issued to reflect changes to your legal name or changes to a work authorization legend do
not count toward these limits. We may also grant exceptions to these limits if you provide evidence from an official
source to establish that a Social Security card is required.
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
If you have any questions about this form or about the evidence documents you must provide, please visit our website
at www.socialsecurity.gov for additional information as well as locations of our offices and Social Security Card
Centers. You may also call Social Security at 1-800-772-1213. You can also find your nearest office or Card Center in
your local phone book.
Form SS-5 (12-2024) UF Page 2 of 5
EVIDENCE DOCUMENTS
The following lists are examples of the types of documents you must provide with your application and are not all
inclusive. Call us at 1-800-772-1213 if you cannot provide these documents.
IMPORTANT: If you are completing this application on behalf of someone else, you must provide evidence that shows
your authority to sign the application as well as documents to prove your identity and the identity of the person for
whom you are filing the application. We can only accept original documents or documents certified by the custodian of
the original record. Notarized copies or photocopies which have not been certified by the custodian of the record are
not acceptable.
Evidence of Age
In general, you must provide your birth certificate. In some situations, we may accept another document that shows
your age. Some of the other documents we may accept are:
U.S. hospital record of your birth (created at the time of birth)
Religious record established before age five showing your age or date of birth
Passport
Final Adoption Decree (the adoption decree must show that the birth information was taken from the original
birth certificate)
Evidence of Identity
You must provide current, unexpired evidence of identity in your legal name. Your legal name will be shown on the
Social Security card. Generally, we prefer to see documents issued in the U.S. Documents you submit to establish
identity must show your legal name AND provide biographical information (your date of birth, age, or parents' names)
and/or physical information (photograph, or physical description - height, eye and hair color, etc.). If you send a photo
identity document but do not appear in person, the document must show your biographical information (e.g., your date
of birth, age, or parents' names). Generally, documents without an expiration date should have been issued within the
past two years for adults and within the past four years for children.
As proof of your identity, you must provide a:
U.S. driver's license; or
U.S. State-issued non-driver identity card; or
U.S. passport
If you do not have one of the documents above or cannot get a replacement within 10 work days, we may accept
other documents that show your legal name and biographical information, such as a U.S. military identity card,
Certificate of Naturalization, employee identity card, certified copy of medical record (clinic, doctor or hospital), health
insurance card, Medicaid card, or school identity card/record. For young children, we may accept medical records
(clinic, doctor, or hospital) maintained by the medical provider. We may also accept a final adoption decree, or a
school identity card, or other school record maintained by the school.
If you are not a U.S. citizen, we must see your current U.S. immigration document(s) and your foreign passport with
biographical information or photograph.
WE CANNOT ACCEPT A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, HOSPITAL SOUVENIR BIRTH CERTIFICATE, SOCIAL SECURITY
CARD STUB OR A SOCIAL SECURITY RECORD as evidence of identity.
Evidence of U.S. Citizenship
In general, you must provide your U.S. birth certificate or U.S. Passport. Other documents you may provide are a
Consular Report of Birth, Certificate of Citizenship, or Certificate of Naturalization.
Evidence of Immigration Status
You must provide a current unexpired document issued to you by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
showing your immigration status, such as Form I-551, I-94, or I-766. If you are an international student or exchange
visitor, you may need to provide additional documents, such as Form I-20, DS-2019, or a letter authorizing
employment from your school and employer (F-1) or sponsor (J-1). We CANNOT accept a receipt showing you
applied for the document. If you are not authorized to work in the U.S., we can issue you a Social Security card only if
you need the number for a valid non-work reason. Your card will be marked to show you cannot work and if you do
work, we will notify DHS. See page 3, item 5 for more information.
Form SS-5 (12-2024) UF Page 3 of 5
HOW TO COMPLETE THIS APPLICATION
Complete and sign this application LEGIBLY using ONLY black or blue ink on the attached or downloaded
form using only 8 ½” x 11” (or A4 8.25” x 11.7”) paper.
GENERAL: Items on the form are self-explanatory or are discussed below. The numbers match the numbered items
on the form. If you are completing this form for someone else, please complete the items as they apply to that person.
4. Show the month, day, and full (4 digit) year of birth; for example, “1998” for year of birth.
5. If you check “Legal Alien Not Allowed to Work” or “Other,” you must provide a document from a U.S.
Federal, State, or local government agency that explains why you need a Social Security number and
that you meet all the requirements for the government benefit. NOTE: Most agencies do not require that
you have a Social Security number. Contact us to see if your reason qualifies for a
Social Security number.
6., 7. Providing race and ethnicity information is voluntary and does not affect decisions on your application. We
request this information for research and statistical purposes, to ensure all our customers receive fair and
equal treatment.
9.B., 10.B. If you are applying for an original Social Security card for a child under age 18, you MUST show
the parents' Social Security numbers unless the parent was never assigned a Social Security
number. If the number is not known and you cannot obtain it, check the “unknown” box.
13. If the date of birth you show in item 4 is different from the date of birth currently shown on your Social
Security record, show the date of birth currently shown on your record in item 13 and provide evidence
to support the date of birth shown in item 4.
16. Show an address where you can receive your card 7 to 14 days from now.
17. WHO CAN SIGN THE APPLICATION? If you are age 18 or older and are physically and mentally
capable of reading and completing the application, you must sign in item 17. If you are under age 18,
you may either sign yourself, or a parent or legal guardian may sign for you. If you are over age 18 and
cannot sign on your own behalf, a legal guardian, parent, or close relative may generally sign for you. If
you cannot sign your name, you should sign with an "X” mark and have two people sign as witnesses in
the space beside the mark. Please do not alter your signature by including additional information on the
signature line as this may invalidate your application. Call us if you have questions about who may sign
your application.
HOW TO SUBMIT THIS APPLICATION
In most cases, you can take or mail this signed application with your documents to any Social Security office. Any
documents you mail to us will be returned to you. Go to https://secure.ssa.gov/apps6z/FOLO/fo001.jsp to find the
Social Security office or Social Security Card Center that serves your area.
Form SS-5 (12-2024) UF Page 4 of 5
PROTECT YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER AND CARD
Protect your SSN card and number from loss and identity theft. DO NOT carry your SSN card with you. Keep it in a
secure location and only take it with you when you must show the card; e.g., to obtain a new job, open a new bank
account, or to obtain benefits from certain U.S. agencies. Use caution in giving out your Social Security number to
others, particularly during phone, mail, email and Internet requests you did not initiate.
PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT
Collection and Use of Personal Information
Sections 202, 205(c), and 702 of the Social Security Act (Act), as amended, allow us to collect this information, which
we will use to assign a Social Security number, issue a Social Security card, and make a timely determination
concerning eligibility for Social Security benefits. Providing the information is voluntary, but not providing all or part of
the information may prevent us from assisting you. As law permits, we may use and share the information you submit,
including with other Federal agencies, contractors, and others, as outlined in the routine uses within System of
Records Notices (SORN) 60-0058, 60-0090, 60-0103, and 60-0104, available at www.ssa.gov/privacy. The
information you submit may also be used in computer matching programs to establish or verify eligibility for Federal
benefit programs and to recoup debts under these programs. The Act also allows us to collect race and ethnicity
information, which we will use for research and statistical purposes. Furnishing us this information is voluntary and will
not be used in decisions about your application.
Paperwork Reduction Act Statement - This information collection meets the requirements of 44 U.S.C. § 3507, as
amended by section 2 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. You do not need to answer these questions unless we
display a valid Office of Management and Budget control number. We estimate that it will take between 5 and 60
minutes to read the instructions, gather the facts, and answer the questions. SEND OR BRING THE COMPLETED
FORM TO YOUR LOCAL SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICE. You can find your local Social Security office through
SSA’s website at www.socialsecurity.gov. Offices are also listed under U. S. Government agencies in your
telephone directory or you may call Social Security at 1-800-772-1213 (TTY 1-800-325-0778). You may send
comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection, including suggestions for reducing this
burden to: SSA, 6401 Security Blvd, Baltimore, MD 21235-6401. Send only comments relating to our time
estimate to this address, not the completed form.
Form SS-5 (12-2024) UF
Discontinue Prior Editions
Social Security Administration
Page 5 of 5
OMB No. 0960-0066
Application for a Social Security Card
1
NAME
TO BE SHOWN ON CARD
First Full Middle Name Last
FULL NAME AT BIRTH
IF OTHER THAN ABOVE
First Full Middle Name Last
OTHER NAMES USED
2 Social Security number previously assigned to the person
listed in item 1
3 PLACE OF
BIRTH
(Do Not Abbreviate) City State or Foreign Country
Office
Use Only
FCI
4 DATE
OF
BIRTH MM/DD/YYYY
5 CITIZENSHIP
(Check One) U.S. Citizen Legal Alien
Allowed To
Work
Legal Alien Not Allowed To
Work(See Instructions On
Page 3)
Other (See
Instructions On
Page 3)
6
ETHNICITY
Are You Hispanic or Latino?
(Your Response is Voluntary)
Yes No
7
RACE
Select One or More
(Your Response
is Voluntary)
Native Hawaiian
Alaska Native
Asian
American Indian
Black/African
American
Other Pacific
Islander
White
8 SEX Male Female
9
A. PARENT/ MOTHER'S
NAME AT HER BIRTH
First Full Middle Name Last
B. PARENT/ MOTHER'S SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBER (See instructions for 9B on Page 3) Unknown
10
A. PARENT/ FATHER'S
NAME
First Full Middle Name Last
B. PARENT/ FATHER'S SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBER (See instructions for 10B on Page 3) Unknown
11 Has the person listed in item 1 or anyone acting on his/her behalf ever filed for or received a Social Security number card
before?
Yes (If "yes" answer questions 12-13) No Don't Know (If "don't know," skip to question 14.)
12 Name shown on the most recent Social
Security card issued for the person
listed in item 1
First Full Middle Name Last
13 Enter any different date of birth if used on an
earlier application for a card MM/DD/YYYY
14 TODAY'S
DATE MM/DD/YYYY 15 DAYTIME PHONE
NUMBER Area Code Number
16 MAILING ADDRESS
(Do Not Abbreviate)
Street Address, Apt. No., PO Box, Rural Route No.
City State/Foreign Country ZIP Code
17
I declare under penalty of perjury that I have examined all the information on this form, and on any accompanying
statements or forms, and it is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
YOUR SIGNATURE
18 YOUR RELATIONSHIP TO THE PERSON IN ITEM 1 IS:
Self Natural Or
Adoptive Parent
Legal
Guardian
Other
Specify
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE (FOR SSA USE ONLY)
NPN DOC NTI CAN ITV
PBC EVI EVA EVC PRA NWR DNR UNIT
EVIDENCE SUBMITTED SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF EMPLOYEE(S)
REVIEWING EVIDENCE AND/OR CONDUCTING
INTERVIEW
DATE
DCL DATE
INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Complete form in blue or black ink or print form.
2. A licensed physician must complete Section 2.
3. Applicant must complete Section 3.
4. Submit completed form with original signatures to any BMV license branch location.
SECTION 1 - APPLICANT’S INFORMATION
Legal Name (last, first, middle initial) Indiana Driver’s License Number (DLN) Date of Birth (mm/dd/yyyy)
Address (number and street) City State ZIP code
SECTION 2 - PHYSICIAN’S STATEMENT FOR GENDER CHANGE (140 IAC 7-1.1-3(d)(3)(C)(ii))
I certify ____________________________________________ successfully underwent all treatment necessary to permanently change
(Insert applicant’s name.)
____________________________________________ gender from ___________________ to ___________________.
(Insert applicant’s name.) (Insert prior gender.) (Insert new gender.)
By signing this form, I swear or affirm under the penalty of perjury that the information on this form is true and correct.
Printed Name of Physician Medical License Number State of Issuance
Signature of Physician Date Signed (mm/dd/yyyy) Physician Telephone Number
SECTION 3 – SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT
By signing this form, I authorize the above information to be released to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles. I swear or
affirm under the penalty of perjury that the information on this form is true and correct.
Printed Name of Applicant
Signature of Applicant Date Signed (mm/dd/yyyy)
PHYSICIAN’S STATEMENT OF GENDER CHANGE
State Form 55617 (7-14)
INDIANA BUREAU OF MOTOR VEHICLES
BUREAU OF MOTOR VEHICLES
100 North Senate Avenue
Room N481
Indianapolis, IN 46204
LGBTQ+ Project
Office: (317) 829-3180
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
3
Rev. 8.7.25
How to Change Your Name with Bureau of Motor Vehicles (BMV)
IMPORTANT: You have to change your name with Social Security first. After that, wait
one business day before going to the BMV.
Step 1: Change your name at the Social Security office.
 After your name is changed with Social Security, wait one business day before
going to the BMV.
 You can find the instructions for changing your name with Social Security on
page 2 of this packet.
Step 2: Go to your local BMV.
 Find your local BMV branch at www.in.gov/bmv/branch-locations-and-hours/bmv-
branch-map/
 Bring these documents with you:
• Your current driver’s license or state ID (if you have one)
• A certified copy of your name change court order
How to Change your Gender Marker with the BMV
Step 1: Fill out the Physician’s Statement of Gender Change – State Form 55617
 You’ll find this form in your packet. This form needs to be completed by you and
your doctor
 You can choose either Female (F) or Male (M) for your gender marker.
Step 2: Go to your local BMV.
 Bring the completed Physician’s Statement of Gender Change form with you to
the BMV.
INDIANA PHOTO ID
OR DRIVER’S LICENSE
LGBTQ+ Project
Office: (317) 829-3180
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
4
Rev. 8.7.25
Voting and Your Gender Marker on ID
You can vote even if your gender doesn’t match what’s on your government-issued ID.
However, you must be registered to vote using the name on your ID.
You can update your voter registration online at https://indianavoters.in.gov/
VOTER REGISTRATION
LGBTQ+ Project
Office: (317) 829-3180
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
5
Rev. 8.7.25
How to Change Your Name on Your Indiana Birth Certificate
You have two options for changing the name on your Indiana birth certificate:
1. Go to the county health department where you were born. This is often the fastest
way.
2. Contact the Vital Records Division of the Indiana State Department of Health at
(317) 233-2700 for the current procedures.
Option 1: Go to the county health department where you were born
 Find the county health department where you were born at
www.in.gov/health/lhd/local-health-department-map/
 To request the correction by mail, contact the county health department to learn
how to do this.
 Bring these documents with you:
• Your current driver’s license, state ID, or U.S. Passport
• A certified copy of your name change court order
IMPORTANT WARNING: If your name change and gender marker change are on the
same court order, do not use it to update your birth certificate. Contact us right away.
Gender Marker Change for Indiana Birth Certificates
Right now, you cannot change your sex/gender marker on your Indiana Birth Certificate.
IMPORTANT WARNING: Do not send a gender marker change request to the county
or the State Department of Health. If you do, your application and forms may be sent to
the attorney general’s office.
INDIANA BIRTH CERTIFICATE
LGBTQ+ Project
Office: (317) 829-3180
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
6
Rev. 8.7.25
On June 17, 2025, a federal court issued a preliminary injunction that now allows people
to update the gender markers on their U.S. Passport. This means you can self-select
your gender marker when applying for or updating a passport.
Please use the ACLU’s instructions to apply for an accurate passport, found here:
https://www.aclu.org/trumps-assault-on-transgender-rights/qa-orr-v-trump.
You can also find more information about U.S. Passports at:
transequality.org/documents/know-your-rights-passports
U.S. PASSPORT
LGBTQ+ Project
Office: (317) 829-3180
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
7
Rev. 8.7.25
You can find information on how to update out-of-state and other federal IDs at:
https://transequality.org/documents.
OUT OF STATE DOCUMENTS