Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Texas Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. Requires fingerprinting, a background check, and a court appearance.
Name Change (Minor): Yes. Notification of all known legal parents and a court appearance.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name and a notarized application are required to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): No. The Texas Department of State Health Services is no longer providing amendments to gender markers on birth certificates.
State ID / Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A certified copy of your order of name change OR amended birth certificate is required to make this change.
State ID / Driver’s License (Gender Marker): No. It is currently not possible to update your gender marker on a Texas ID or Driver’s License. You can still change your name on your driver’s license. Texas requires proof of lawful immigration status.
Restrictions based on Criminal History: If you have a felony conviction, you must wait two years after completing the sentence and being discharged from probation before applying.
If you’re thinking about updating your name or gender marker, congratulations! The process and information below might seem overwhelming. Take it one step at a time. There’s additional resources and organizations linked below to help you. You’ve got this!
Texas Name Changes (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Texas, you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find your court where you need to file in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Further instructions and information about the name change process here .
Courts have discretion to deny a name change petition to a vulgar or offensive name, but courts may not deny a name change simply because you are trans.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
To begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition to Change the Name of an Adult . You may need to inquire with your court clerk for the local required form in your county.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
Civil Case Information Sheet
Petition to Change the Name of an Adult
Fingerprint Card
Order Changing the Name of an Adult
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Declaration of Indigency. Further instructions on applying for a fee waiver are available here .
If you were convicted of a felony, you will need to include proof that you were pardoned or that it has been at least 2 years since you were discharged/completed probation. If you are on the sex offender registry, you will need to include proof that you have submitted a Sex Offender Update form to your local law enforcement authority notifying them of your intent to change your name.
Step 3: Fingerprinting & Background Check
You must also complete 2 fingerprint cards to make your name change request. You will need to file one fingerprint card during step 2 and submit the other fingerprint card to the Texas Department of Public Safety with a copy of your Petition for Change of Name.
To have your fingerprints taken, you will need to call 1-888-467-2080 to schedule an appointment to be fingerprinted at a “Print and Go” FAST location. You can also make an appointment on their website and select Option B – Fingerprint Cards. There will be a $20.00 fee associated with fingerprinting.
You will need to mail your completed fingerprint card and Petition copy to:
Texas Department of Public Safety
Central Cash Receiving
P. O. Box 15999
Austin, Texas 78761-5999
The Department of Public Safety has provided an instruction guide for how to submit your fingerprints. If you have any additional questions, call (512) 424-2474 or contact your court clerk.
Once the fingerprints are filed, the Department of Public Safety will conduct a background check and will send the results directly to the court. There will be a $27.00 processing fee associated with the background check.
Step 4: Issuance of Final Judgment
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will review your case.
If the judge approves the request, they will sign an order, and you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as a birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Texas Name Changes (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. A petition is a formal written application to a court requesting judicial action—in this case, your name change! These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the district court . You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Further instructions and information about the name change process here .
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
To begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition to Change the Name of a Child . You may need to inquire with your court clerk for the local required form in your county.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
Civil Case Information Sheet
Petition to Change the Name of a Child
Child’s Consent to Name Change —only if you are 10 years of age or older
Information on Suit Affecting the Family Relationship
Order Changing the Name of a Child
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Statement of Inability to Afford Payment of Court Costs . Further instructions on applying for a fee waiver are available here .
If you were convicted of a felony, you will need to include proof that you were pardoned or that it has been at least 2 years since you were discharged/completed probation. If you are on the sex offender registry, you will need to include proof that you have submitted a Sex Offender Update form to your local law enforcement authority notifying them of your intent to change your name.
Step 3: Obtain Parental Consent / Parental Notification
Notification of all known and legal parents is required to grant a minor name change.
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary, and you can proceed to the next step.
If the other parent is deceased or their parental rights were terminated, one parent is able to act as the sole petitioner.
If a known legal parent is not petitioning, they will still need to be notified through the serving process. This is done through a third party, either the constable, sheriff, or a private process server, who will deliver the required documents to the non-petitioning parent.
When the non-petitioning parent has been served, the third-party server will give you a Return of Service as evidence that this step has been completed. You will need to file the Return of Service. It must be on file for at least 10 days before you can move forward with your case.
You will need to give the non-petitioning parent at least 20 days to file an answer with the court. Find the day the other parent was served on a calendar, count out 20 more days, then go to the next Monday at 10 am. This is the last day of the other parent’s answer period. However, if the other parent files an answer at any time before you finish your case, it will still count.
If the non-petitioning parent does not file an answer with the court, you may be able to proceed without them. You may move to the next step if service was completed properly, Return to Service was filed properly, and the waiting periods were both completed. If this is the case, you will need to file a Certificate of Last Known Mailing Address, and you may proceed with your case. However, you will need to call the clerk’s office the day before you plan to go to court to make sure the other parent has not filed an answer.
If the non-petitioning parent consents to the name change after service, they will sign the proposed Order Changing the Name of a Child form, and you may proceed with your case.
If the non-petitioning parent does not consent to the name change after service, a contested final hearing will be scheduled. You must give notice of the hearing to the non-consenting parent at least 45 days in advance.
If you are unable to locate the non-petitioning parent, you will need to give notice through publication . This can be done through publication in a newspaper and/or on the state service website. If this is the case, you may wish to seek legal assistance.
If you have questions regarding the service procedures and requirements, please contact your local court clerk.
Step 4: Attend Hearing & Issuance of Final Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court may schedule a hearing, which you and your petitioning guardian(s) will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian(s) further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the judge approves the request, they will sign an order approving the name change, and you can request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as a birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Texas Gender Marker Changes
The Texas Department of State Health Services will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments. It will take 6-8 weeks to process the amendment.
When Amending the Name Only
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Birth Certificate Correction Application
A certified copy of a court order for change of name
A valid photo ID
The $15.00 amendment fee
The $22.00 certificate fee. There is an additional fee for multiple copies.
Please note that you will need to have the application for amendment notarized before submitting. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g., driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here.
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Texas , you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Texas Vital Records Office.
Mailing address:
Vital Statistics Section
P.O. Box 12040
Austin, TX 78711-2040
If you are no longer a Texas resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Texas, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Texas Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Texas, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records Office at 888-963-7111.
Updating Gender Markers
Currently, the Texas Department of State Health Services is no longer issuing gender marker amendments on birth certificates under the Governor’s Executive Order 14168 and the Attorney General’s Opinion KP-0489 .
Texas Driver's Licenses
In order to update the name on a Texas driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
You will need to update the name on your driver’s license or identification card within 30 days of your name change.
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A certified copy of your order of name change OR amended birth certificate
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Texas residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A list of acceptable identification and residency documentation is available here .
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your DMV at 1 (888) 368-4689.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
On August 21, 2024, the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) stopped processing requests to update gender markers on Texas driver's licenses or state IDs. The policy affects both new and current applicants.
For existing licenses, it is our understanding that DPS will not update gender markers during renewals. First-time applicants must rely on the primary documentation (e.g., “original” birth certificate, passport) to determine the gender marker. DPS may also refuse to accept court orders combining name and gender marker changes, even for just a name change.
We recommend approaching applying for a new driver’s license or identification using a birth certificate or passport with a correct gender marker with caution. For more information on the state of identity documents in Texas, please consult Transgender Education Network of Texas (TENT)'s fact sheet . Additionally, if you experience a denial in updating a state identification document, please contact TENT at support@transtexas.org .
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Trans Legal Clinic TX —connects trans and gender diverse Texans with volunteers from the legal community for free guidance when navigating the name change process and updating identity documents. Register for a clinic here .
Email: info@translegalaidtx.com
Texas Name Change Tookit —accessible self-help guide with fillable forms with information on minors and adult name changes.
Dallas LGBT Bar Association Name Change Clinic— composed of lawyers, law students, para-professionals, and related professional allies who share an interest in protecting the LGBT community. They occasionally host Name and Gender Marker Clinics for free. Contact them here about services.
Email: clinic@dallaslgbtbar.org
Texas Citations
Change of Name— Tex. Fam. Code §§ 45.001-45.107
Tex. Att'y Gen. Op. No. KP-0489 (2024) (prohibiting changes to gender markers on Texas driver’s licenses and birth certificates)
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe