Skip to content
Always Accepting New Patients
Welcome to the OKEQ Health Clinic , a safe, inclusive healthcare space operated by Oklahomans for Equality.
We provide compassionate, affirming care tailored to the needs of the 2SLGBTQIA+ community in Oklahoma. Whether you’re starting care, transferring from another provider, or simply have questions, our team is here to help you navigate your healthcare with respect and without judgment.
Clinic Hours:
Tuesdays - 9 am to 4 pm | Wednesdays - 9 am to 4 pm | Thursdays - 9 am to 12 pm | Fridays - 1 pm to 4 pm
Meet Your Provider
Anna L. Piña, APRN, NP-C
Anna brings more than 24 years of experience providing comprehensive healthcare, including more than a decade of specialized experience in gender-affirming care.
At OKEQ Health Clinic, our goal is to create a healthcare experience where you can ask questions, talk openly about your needs, and feel supported throughout your care.
OKEQ Health Clinic Services :
Gender-Affirming & Primary Care :
Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT)
Accessible, affirming care for patients seeking hormone therapy.
Primary Care for Established Trans Patients
Primary care services are available for established transgender patients.
Transgender-Affirming GYN Care
Routine Pap smears and appropriate screenings in a safe, respectful environment.
Sexual Health :
STI Screening & Testing
Complete panel testing to help you take care of your sexual health.
PrEP Services
Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) is medication that can significantly reduce the risk of acquiring HIV through sex.
Free Prevention Tools :
Free Prevention Supplies
Complimentary condoms, Plan B, and emergency Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) samples are available.
If you are interested in starting or transferring services, please call 918-938-6537 to set up an appointment or use the link below. Please do not send medical or private information via email! ​
Questions about insurance, cost, or access to care?
We know that figuring out healthcare costs can sometimes feel overwhelming. Our team is here to help you understand your options.
Insurance
We are currently credentialed with Blue Cross Blue Shield (BCBS ). If you have insurance other than BCBS, your laboratory services may still be billed to your insurance provider.
Self-Pay & Cost Assistance
We offer self-pay options, and if cost is a concern, please talk with our clinic team. We will work with you to explore available cost-assistance options so that cost does not have to keep you from seeking care.
Payment is due at the time services are provided.
Patient Information
New Patient Registration Process
We are thrilled to welcome you to the OKEQ Health Clinic family. Please review our new patient scheduling policy to prevent scheduling errors:
• We currently serve patients who are 18 years of age and older.
• First-time visits require an explicit 1-hour time slot.
• Appointments must be made at least 24 hours before your requested appointment time.
Please schedule two (2) consecutive 30-minute appointment slots back-to-back. If unavailable, choose another day or time to ensure your visit is approved.
Schedule an Appointment
*Please note that the link to make an appointment is not as gender-inclusive as we would like. The form is through our EHR, and we will work to fix it in the future. For now, please click what is closest to your identity and include your pronouns in the reason for this visit section. If you would prefer, you can always call 918-938-6537 to make an appointment or call for any questions or concerns.
Prescription Refills Policy
To avoid gaps in your medications, please follow our prescription refill process:
• Directly contact your preferred pharmacy to submit a refill request.
• The pharmacy will automatically alert your provider.
• Please allow up to 72 hours for our team to review, approve, and submit the response to your pharmacy.