Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Navigate This Page:
➡️ Start TYEP Application
➡️ Donate
➡️ About TYEP
➡️ Join Monthly Support Group
➡️ National Legal Landscape
➡️ Partner Organizations
➡️ Other Resources or Actions
➡️ State Law and Local Resources
➡️ National Resources
➡️ Documenting the Crisis
Accessing best-practice gender-affirming care for transgender youth is more challenging than ever: 27 states have passed cruel laws banning or restricting care, the U.S. Supreme Court has upheld these bans in the Skrmetti v. L.W. case, and the Trump Administration has pursued a relentless campaign attacking access. As a result, thousands of transgender youth and their families are being forced to identify new healthcare providers, travel extreme distances, and take on significant expenses just to get the care they need.
The Trans Youth Emergency Project (TYEP) is here to help families navigate this complex and exhausting maze, offering logistical and financial support. Our team provides 1-on-1 custom patient navigation services to unimpacted providers and supports families of transgender youth with travel grants.
At this time TYEP services are available to:
A parent or legal guardian of a transgender person under the age of 18 whose access to healthcare has been impacted by a restriction on gender-affirming care.
Transgender people who are 18 years old if they live in Alabama or have lost care due to the Executive Order.
Start TYEP Application
Donate to Help Trans Youth Access Healthcare
Access to lifesaving healthcare for transgender youth is being attacked at the state and federal level, leaving families in need of support. The Trans Youth Emergency Project is here to help. Make a donation now to support trans youth and their families.
Donate Today
How TYEP Supports Families
Patient Navigation
We help families understand their options for continuing care with providers that are not impacted by state or federal restrictions, including referrals to medical providers in the regional network CSE has worked to coordinate.
Travel Grants
Families of trans youth can receive travel grants of $500 to help pay for travel expenses. These travel grants are renewable four times per year. Families living in states without bans who are forced to relocate their care are eligible for one-time travel grants.
Ecosystem of Care
We operate as an info hub about anti-trans healthcare restrictions, networking with community partners, families, and providers.
The National Landscape
Use the map to get up-to-date information on the status and details of specific state-level laws, learn about our partners, and more.
Key: Broad Restriction or Ban in Effect • Ban on Surgery in Effect • Ban Set to Take Effect • Ban Under Consideration • Restriction on Hold by Court Order • No Ban
Request Support
If you are seeking patient navigation services and/or a travel grant from the Trans Youth Emergency Project, please fill out the form below.
At this time TYEP services are available to:
A parent or legal guardian of a transgender person under the age of 18 whose access to healthcare has been impacted by a restriction on gender-affirming care.
Transgender people who are 18 years old if they live in Alabama or have lost care due to the Executive Order.
Applicants living in states without bans who are forced to relocate their care because of a clinic closure are eligible for one-time travel grants.
Company
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
TYEP Intake Form
REQUESTER INFORMATION
Name (Required)
First
Last
Pronouns (Required)
Email (Required)
Phone Number (Required)
City (Required)
State (Required) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming
Zip Code (Required)
Which of the following best describes your race and ethnicity? Select all that apply. (Required)
Asian American or Pacific Islander
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latino/x/e
Middle Eastern or North African
Native American or Indigenous
White
Other
What is your preferred language or dialect for communication, such as written documents, emails, or phone calls? (Required) Arabic Chinese English French German Greek Haitian Creole Hindi Italian Japanese Korean Navajo Persian (Farsi) Polish Portuguese Russian Spanish Tagalog Vietnamese Urdu
Which of the following applies to you? (Required) Select One I am the parent or legal guardian of a transgender person under the age of 18. I am a transgender person who is 18 and lost access to care due to the executive order and/or lives in Alabama. I am the parent or legal guardian of a transgender person who is 18 and lost access to care due to the executive order and/or lives in Alabama. I am an ally to the transgender community looking for resources.
YOUTH INFORMATION
Which of the following best describes the youth&#039;s race and ethnicity? (Required)
Asian American or Pacific Islander
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latino/x/e
Middle Eastern or North African
Native American or Indigenous
White
Other
What is the youth&#039;s age? (Required) 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
TYEP SERVICES
How can we help? Select all that apply. (Required)
I am requesting patient navigation services
I am requesting a travel grant
I am looking for additional information and resources
I am not sure
I’m writing about something else
Do you need language assistance or accommodations to fully engage with the TYEP program? Select all that apply. (Required)
Yes, I need documents or materials translated into my preferred language or dialect
Yes, I need an interpreter (e.g., spoken language or Sign Language)
Yes, I need assistive technology (e.g., screen readers, large print)
No, I do not need language assistance
Other
Where did you learn about the Trans Youth Emergency Project? (Required)
CaptchaTest
Submit
Join Our Support Group for Parents & Families of Transgender Youth
Many parents of transgender, nonbinary, and gender-expansive youth are grappling with anti-trans laws and policies affecting their kids. We’re committed to providing a safe, welcoming space for these brave young folks and their families – so we’re welcoming parents and caregivers of trans kids and young adults to gather in community to share fears, feelings, challenges, and hopes with each other.
Learn More & Register
Other Resources or Actions
Send Love & Support
Virtual Wellness Toolkit
Get Started with Our Toolkit
Get Details About Your State&#8217;s Law and Local Resources
Click on these individual state icons, organized alphabetically, for your specific state&#8217;s law and landscape.
Alabama
Arizona
Arkansas
Florida
Georgia
Idaho
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
New Hampshire
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Puerto Rico
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Wyoming
West Virginia
Partner Organizations
National Organizations Supporting Families of Transgender Youth
Documenting the Crisis
A key part of our work at the Trans Youth Emergency Project is documenting the crisis of transgender youth being prohibited from accessing gender-affirming care. We&#8217;re working with reporters all across the country to share the stories of impacted families and get the word out of the enormous barriers and burdens that these bans impose.
See News Stories
Report: The New Policy Pathways Anti-Trans Policymakers Are Using to Intensify and Nationalize Attacks on Gender-Affirming Care
This report documents how conservative lawmakers at both the state and federal level are finding new policy pathways to restrict access to gender-affirming care for youth and adults, and provides insight and recommendations from the Campaign for Southern Equality.
Read the Report
Stay Informed
Sign up to receive news and updates from CSE.
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address *
Zip Code *
Sign up
Quick Links
Trans in the South
Southern Equality Fund
Take Action
Shop CSE
About
Connect With Us!
Every day that we live with injustice is one day too long.
P.O. Box 364
Asheville , NC 28802
828.242.1559
English