Ask DMV
&times;
General Disclaimer
When interacting with the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) Virtual Assistant, please do not include any personal information.
When your chat is over, you can save the transcript. Use caution when using a public computer or device.
Third-Party Translation Disclaimer
Third-Party Translation Disclaimer
The DMV chatbot and live chat services use third-party vendors to provide machine translation. Machine translation is provided for purposes of information and convenience only. The DMV is unable to guarantee the accuracy of any translation provided by the third-party vendors and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information or changes in the formatting of the content resulting from the use of the translation service.
The content currently in English is the official and accurate source for the program information and services DMV provides. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any questions arise related to the information contained in the translated content, please refer to the English version.
I agree
Continue
Skip to content
Driver&#8217;s License or ID Card Updates
Change is inevitable, we know&#8230; which is why we&#8217;re committed to making it easy for you to ensure your driver&#8217;s license or identification (DL/ID) card accurately reflects who (and where!) you are.
How to Change Your Information
Changing Your Name
Change your name with the Social Security Administration (SSA)
When you apply for a new DL/ID card using your new name, the first thing DMV will do is verify your information with SSA, so make sure you have informed SSA of your new name.
If your SSA information does not match your new DL/ID application information, your application will be denied, and you will receive a Request for Verification of Information letter from DMV telling you what to do.
Complete a new DL/ID application
Use our online application to apply for a new DL/ID card or commercial driver&#8217;s license (CDL) with your new name.
Note If you want your new DL/ID to be a REAL ID , you will be able to apply for one in the application.
Gather the required proof documents to show DMV
If you want a REAL ID as your updated DL/ID, you will need to provide 1.) proof of identity, 2.) Social Security Number, and 3.) two proofs of California residency. See acceptable documents list (PDF) .
If you want a non-REAL ID DL/ID you need only provide proof of your true full name. See acceptable documents list (PDF) .
California Commercial Driver&#8217;s License Documents List (PDF)
If you are applying for a CDL , you will need to provide 1.) proof of your true full name ( see acceptable documents list (PDF) ), 2.) a 10 Year History Record Check form (DL939) (PDF) (if you have been issued a DL of any kind in another state or jurisdiction in the last 10 years), and 3.) a copy of the Medical Examiner&#8217;s Certificate from the medical examiner who performed your current commercial medical examination.
Not your first name change? If you have ever legally changed your name before, you may need to provide proof of all former name changes (whether DMV was notified of them or not). This may include any combination of the following:
Name change document(s) containing your legal name both before and after the name change.
Marriage certificate(s).
Dissolution of marriage/domestic partnership document(s) containing the legal name as a result of the court action.
Document(s) verifying the formation of a domestic partnership.
Adoption documents that contain the legal name as a result of the adoption.
Visit a DMV office to complete the process
Your name change is not complete until you come into a field office! You may either make an appointment or visit a field office at your convenience without an appointment.
Bring your current DL/ID and proof documents with you, and be prepared to pay the appropriate licensing fee and scan your thumbprint to protect against identity theft.
If you applied for a DL, you will be given a temporary license valid for 60 days. If you applied for an ID card, you will be given a receipt as proof of application. You should receive your new DL/ID card in the mail within 3-4 weeks. If you have not received your DL/ID card after 60 days, visit Driver’s License & ID Card Status .
Changing Your Address
Notifying DMV of an address change is easy and free! Just submit a Change of Address (DMV 14) form using the option below that is most convenient for you:
Online: Request a change of address in your MyDMV account.
By mail: Download the DMV 14 (PDF) (or call DMV at 1-800-777-0133 to request to have the form mailed to you; note this may take up to 5 days to receive) and mail the completed form to the address listed on the form.
In person: Visit any DMV office , complete a DMV 14, and give it to a representative. The representative will submit the form to DMV headquarters for processing.
Important California law requires that you notify DMV within 10 days of changing your address.
Changing Your Gender Identity
As of January 1, 2019, individuals may self-select a gender identity of male (M), female (F), or nonbinary (X) to appear on their driver&#8217;s license or identification (DL/ID).
Note If you are changing your name on your DL/ID in addition to your gender category, please also follow the instructions within &#8220;Changing Your Name&#8221; above.
Complete a new DL/ID application
Use our online application to apply for a new DL/ID card with your updated gender category.
Note If you want your new DL/ID to be a REAL ID, you will be able to apply for one in the application.
Gather the required documents to show DMV
If you want a REAL ID as your updated DL/ID, you will need to provide 1.) proof of identity, 2.) Social Security Number, and 3.) two proofs of California residency. See acceptable REAL ID documents list .
Visit a DMV office to complete the process
Your gender category change isn&#8217;t complete until you come into a field office!
Bring your current DL/ID (and any required proof documents with you, if your updated DL/ID will be a REAL ID), and be prepared to pay the appropriate licensing fee and scan your thumbprint to protect against identity theft.
If you applied for a DL (REAL ID or not), you will be given a temporary DL valid for 60 days. If you applied for an ID card, you will be given a receipt as proof of application. You should receive your new DL/ID card in the mail within three to four weeks. If you have not received your driver&#8217;s license and/or ID card after 60 days, visit Driver&#8217;s License & ID Card Status .
Was this page helpful?
👍
👎
&times;
Google&trade; Translate Disclaimer
The Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) website uses Google&trade; Translate to provide automatic translation of its web pages. This translation application tool is provided for purposes of information and convenience only. Google&trade; Translate is a free third-party service, which is not controlled by the DMV. The DMV is unable to guarantee the accuracy of any translation provided by Google&trade; Translate and is therefore not liable for any inaccurate information or changes in the formatting of the pages resulting from the use of the translation application tool.
The web pages currently in English on the DMV website are the official and accurate source for the program information and services the DMV provides. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. If any questions arise related to the information contained in the translated website, please refer to the English version.
The following pages provided on the DMV website cannot be translated using Google&trade; Translate:
Forms
Publications
Field Office Locations
Online Applications
Ok
&times;
Please install the Google Toolbar
Google Translate is not support in your browser. To translate this page, please
install the Google Toolbar (opens in new window) .
Close Form Filler