About Services FAQs Testimonials Appointments Contact Us
BaryLaw
About Services FAQs Testimonials Appointments Contact Us
Frequently Asked Questions:
Fees
Do you offer set fees?
Yes, but that term means different things to many.
Most matters are billed on a base fee basis. The fee is computed based upon the fixed amount of time that Bary expects your matter to take and typically represents a considerable discount off the typical hourly rate (sometimes as high as 50% off). As such, the client receives a specified service from start to finish, subject to a limit on "flex time." The amount of flex time reflects the complexity of the matter. Flex time is generally used for communications and revisions to the substance of the documents after the consultation process ends.
Sometimes, the total fee you pay may be higher than the base fee. This is generally an issue of exceptional circumstances. For example, when a matter is expected to be uncontested from the outset, but is later contested, the time required will exceed the time allotted. But clients rarely go over the time allotted in the inclusive base fee. When overages occur, they are billed at the hourly rates specified in the engagement letter.
How do you determine base fees?
Inclusive base fees may vary depending on the circumstances of your case or situation.
In estate planning matters, the fee is driven by the complexity of your intentions, the nature and extent of your income and estate, the circumstances of your individual personal and family situations, the circumstances of the signing, the number and character of documents required, the speed with which you need the work performed, the number of rounds of revisions and the nature of those revisions we expect, and the professional liability attached to the matter.
In other document preparation matters, the complexity of the documents, the number and character of documents, the speed with which you need the work performed, and the professional liability attached are the primary drivers of the fee.
How do I get an estimate?
Bary will estimate the fee at the end of the consultation, if possible. See the next question to learn more about the cost of the consultation.
If an estimate is not immediately available, the estimate will be provided in the firm&#x27;s engagement letter. On occasion, Bary will need to review the law, wait for clarification from the prospective client, or evaluate other specific considerations after the consultation and before he provides an estimate or agrees to take the client&#x27;s matter.
How much does the consultation cost?
The standard consultation fee for most matters is a flat $300. When a shorter appointment is appropriate due to the work requested, a lower consultation fee may be offered.
How we meet could increase the total you pay. There is no premium for virtual appointments.
In-person consultation appointments are subject to a modest premium, as shown on the booking page. These premiums are based upon the additional time required based upon your chosen the location, and are currently as follows:
$100 to meet at the BaryLaw office or the client&#x27;s home or office within 30 minutes of the BaryLaw office;
$200 for locations 30-60 minutes from the BaryLaw office; and also,
$300+ for locations more than 60 minutes from the BaryLaw office, to be confirmed upon booking.
What are your base fees in estate planning matters?
Individual Clients:
The base fee for a standard plan that does not include a trust or deeds is $ 1,295.00 . The cost deposit is $ 73.00 , for a total of $ 1,368.00 .
The base fee for a standard plan that includes a revocable living trust is $ 2,690.00 . The cost deposit is $ 104.00 , for a total of $ 2,794.00 . The base fee does not include deeds to your trust or assignments of business interests; the number of properties or companies and their value will affect the added fee and costs.
Couple Clients:
The base fee for a plan that does not include trusts is $ 2,295.00 . The deposit for estimated costs is $ 119.00 , for a total of $ 2,414.00 , and an effective per-person cost of $ 1,207.00 .
The base fee for a plan with revocable living trusts is $ 4,690.00 . The deposit for estimated costs is $ 181.00 , for a total of $ 4,871.00 and an effective per-person cost of $ 2,435.50 . The base fee does not include deeds to your trust or assignments of business interests; the number of properties or companies and their value will affect the added fee and costs.
What are your base fees in adoption matters?
Uncontested adoptions for a single child start at $ 1,595.00 , plus costs of $ 255.00 for a total of $ 1,850.00 .
Uncontested adoptions for multiple children start at $ 1,795.00 . The typical cost deposit is $ 265.00 , for a total price of $ 2,060.00 .
What are your base fees in family protection matters?
Individual Clients:
For an individual client, the base fee for an adoption plus a standard plan that does not include a trust is $ 2,690.00 . The cost deposit is $ 328.00 for a total of $ 3,018.00 .
For an individual client, the base fee for an adoption plus a standard plan including a trust is $ 4,085.00 . The cost deposit is $ 359.00 for a total of $ 4,444.00 .
Coupled Clients:
For a client couple, the base fee for a standard plan that does not include trusts is $ 3,690.00 and the cost deposit is $ 374.00 for a total of $ 4,064.00 for the couple and an effective per-person cost of $ 2,032.00 .
When planning with trusts for a client couple, the base fee for a standard plan is $ 6,085.00 and the deposit for estimated costs is $ 436.00 for a total of $ 6,521.00 for the couple and an effective per-person cost of $ 3,260.50 .
What is your lowest fee for a matter?
We are sometimes asked to perform one-off documents or updates for established clients. In these situations, our lowest available fee is generally $475.00. We do not generally agree to prepare one-off documents for prospective clients without first conducting a routine consultation to confirm the client&#x27;s needs and the client&#x27;s understanding of them align. In sliding scale matters, the same lowest available fee applies. Pro bono matters do not have a fee attached.
Do you offer pro bono or sliding scale assistance?
Yes, subject to capacity limits. Use the table evaluating household size, income, and assets below (see, "Do I qualify for pro bono or sliding scale assistance?") to see if you qualify.
Reduced fee rates are also available for standard estate plans and family protection matters (not including living trusts) for those who qualify. The sliding scale results in a discount of 15-30% off, depending on the service, your income/assets, and your circumstances.
Please note that the ability to take pro bono and sliding scale matters is limited. It is important that if you need pro bono, sliding scale assistance, or other accommodations regarding fees, you don&#x27;t "hide the ball" about your circumstances.
I have a pro bono or sliding scale matter. And I&#x27;m in a rush. Can you help?
Probably not. In exceptionally rare circumstances, we may be able to help, but do not count on it. You should check to see when the next available appointment is, then use the Contact page before booking and let us know about your due date to see if Bary help. Do not wait until the appointment to communicate your due date!
Is sliding scale assistance different? How?
Once you are a client, the amount you pay is the only difference. If you qualify for a sliding scale, you will still be asked to pay the regular consultation fee. If you decide to retain BaryLaw and we&#x27;ve verified your qualification for reduced fee assistance to the firm&#x27;s satisfaction, the consultation fee will be applied to the reduced base fee rather than the regular base fee, resulting in a lower total due to hire the firm. When a reduced fee is available and depending on the nature of the matter, the firm may require pre-payment of the entire reduced fee (and costs) before work begins just like in regular base fee matters. If that is not workable for you, you need to let Bary know during the consultation so that you can discuss other options before he issues the engagement letter.
Do I qualify for pro bono or sliding scale assistance?
Effective February 10, 2026:
To see if you qualify for BaryLaw&#x27;s pro bono assistance or sliding scale assistance on a matter, look to the table below.
Find the number of people in your household in the first column to find the row that applies to you. Household size includes all people you are financially responsible for, including yourself. Households of one use the first row.
Follow that row to the second column. See if your annual income is less than the amount in the second column.
Use your total household income from last year. If your household expects to make more this year than last year, use your best estimate of annual income for this year.
If your household income has gone down since last year, don&#x27;t use last year&#x27;s income.
Instead, determine your presumed household income by using the most recent paycheck cycle where you were paid for the entire month. Multiply that number by 12.
Or, if you haven&#x27;t received a paycheck for more than one payroll cycle or you&#x27;re presently unemployed, use your income from the last full month that you had income every paycycle in the month instead, except that if the current paycheck for your most recent pay cycle is lower than ( the last paycheck reflecting a full pay period, determine your monthly and annual income using the lower of the two as if you&#x27;d received that amount each pay period in the month for an entire month instead ) .
Or, if you have been unemployed for at least 3 months, multiply that monthly income number by 6 instead and use the result as your annual income. If you have been unemployed for at least 6 months, multiply that number by 3 instead and use the result as your annual income.
Then, if your income qualifies, check the third column to see whether your total liquid assets are below the amount listed. To know if your assets are under the limit, use the actual cash value of liquid assets (cash, bank accounts, etc.) by looking at the account value listed on your statement. Do not include the value of your car or any other household furniture that&#x27;s essential to daily living. Include the equity in your home only if you own your home (with or without a mortgage) and 1 ) your home has a tax assessed value of at least $250,000 or more, 2 ) you have more than $100,000 in equity in your home and 3 ) have a home equity line of credit with a credit limit you can readily tap into.
Household Size ≦ * Total Annual Income < † and Total Net Worth < ‡
2 $78,250 $5,000
3 $98,600 $10,000
4 $124,300 $15,000
5 $150,000 $20,000
6+ $175,700 $30,000
If your income and assets are below the limits shown for your household size, AND if Bary agrees to take your case, you qualify for pro bono assistance or assistance on a sliding scale (meaning discounted from regular rates). Just because you qualify for pro bono or sliding scale rates does not mean Bary will be able to take your case.
Note: If your income and/or assets exceed the thresholds here, but paying a legal fee for assistance would still pose a serious financial hardship for you or your family, please use the Contact page before booking to explain your situation and receive guidance on how to schedule.
Do you take cases on a contingency basis?
No. Contingency fees are not appropriate for the matters we handle.
What is your hourly rate?
For most matters, BaryLaw offers fixed-fee arrangements with the flexibility you need to confidently budget without worrying about hourly rates. In these matters, Bary&#x27;s effective hourly rate can start as low as $150 per hour depending on the factors that go into determining the inclusive base fee.
Bary&#x27;s regular rate is $400.00 per hour, but may be lower or higher depending on the nature of your case and the work involved, as well as the professional liability attached to the work. In hourly matters and for time in excess of that included in a set fee, Bary&#x27;s work is billed hourly at the rates specified in the engagement letter.
Time is billed in six (6) minute (0.1 hr) increments, with a minimum entry of twelve (12) minutes (0.2 hr).
In hourly matters, you should expect a lowest-possible fee, which will be disclosed in the initial consultation based on Bary&#x27;s estimation of the work involved, as explained in "What is your lowest fee for a matter?" above.
In the extraordinary event a law clerk or paralegal is utilized, their work is billed at $150.00 per hour. (BaryLaw does not have a law clerk or paralegal on staff).
Schedule Other Questions?
(c) 2026 The Law Office of Bary W Hausrath, PLLC