Skip to main content
Ask us for legal help.
We speak your
language
Contact PTLA to get legal help
Contacte a PTLA para obtener ayuda legal
للحصول على المساعدة القانونية PTLA ‎الاتصال بـمكتب
Kala xiriir PTLA wixii caawimaad Sharci eed u bahantahay
Fale com a PTLA para obter assistência jurídica
Solola na PTLA mpo na kozwa lisungi ya maye matali mibéko
Contactez PTLA pour obtenir une aide juridique
Kontakte PTLA pou kapab jwenn Èd Jiridik
Donate
Table of contents
Minor Name Changes in Maine
Introduction
In this article, we cover the forms and process for a name change for a minor. If you are an adult who wants to change their name (or gender marker) please see our guide for adults: How to change your name and gender marker in Maine .
Every Probate Court in Maine is independent and may do things differently from each other. We suggest that you call the Probate Court in your county before filing so you can confirm their specific requirements.
Where can I file to change a minor's name?
To change your name, or the name of a minor in your care, you will usually need to file for a name change (often called a “petition”) with the Probate Court in the county where you live.
But, in some situations you must file the name change petition in District Court. You must file in District Court if:
A case involving the same minor child is already happening in District Court, including custody, parental rights, or a juvenile court matter.
The District Court has already made an order about the minor child that:
terminated a parent’s rights,
appointed a guardian, or
granted an adoption.
If you are not sure where to file your case read our guide: Adoption, Guardianship of a Minor, Child Name Change and Maine's Home Court Act: When, where and how to file the Jurisdictional Affidavit
Who can file to change a minor's name?
A parent or court-appointed guardian can file to change a minor’s name. When parents or guardians are filing, it is easiest when both sign the petition together. It is possible for one parent or guardian to petition without the signature or agreement from the other parent/guardian, but both parents or guardians must usually be notified (more on this below).
If you are a minor your parents or guardians will need to file for you. The only exception is if you are an emancipated minor. You can request a name change during emancipation proceedings. Learn more about emancipation of minors in Maine .
What do I need to file with the court to change a minor's name?
What you need to file a name change petition for a minor in Maine will depend on the situation.
You can file a name change petition for a minor as a stand-alone court case. This article covers what you can do if this is your situation.
But if there is another case going on that involves the minor (like a divorce or parental rights and responsibilities case), you can request a name change for them as part of that case. You will only be able to change a minor’s name this way if you can show good cause. An example of good cause is if a case involves a change in the legal relationship with a person with whom the minor does or does not share a last name, and it would be more efficient to change the minor’s name as part of that case. Please read our guide How To: Navigate Your Divorce or Parental Rights Case in Maine if you are requesting a name change as part of another case involving the child.
If you are filing in Probate Court, it is a good idea to check with the court for what they require because some courts have different requirements. Find your local Maine Probate Court . If you are filing in District Court, you can use this Minor Name Change File Checklist . The important items to file in either court are:
Name Change Petition for Minor (Form NC-001)
Jurisdictional Affidavit (Form AF-101)
Courts use a Jurisdictional Affidavit to find out about all the cases involving a child, and to figure out which court – the Probate Court or the District Court - has the power to make decisions about the child. This is because of a Maine law, the Home Court Act, which is designed to prevent more than one case about the same child from happening in different courts.
Learn more about the Home Court Act in our guide: Adoption, Guardianship of a Minor, Child Name Change and Maine's Home Court Act: When, where and how to file the Jurisdictional Affidavit
Filing Fee (amount may vary) or a fee waiver request (AF-105)
Certified copy of the minor's Birth Certificate
Any court orders having to do with your rights and responsibilities over the minor child (examples: divorce or parental rights judgments; guardianship orders), or Form VS-14, if you want your name to be changed on your birth certificate automatically.
Who do I need to notify to change the name of a minor?
Parents and legal guardians are entitled to notice of the name change petition. Other parties might also be entitled to notice, including a guardian ad litem or a state agency with custody of the minor. If the other parent or guardian disagrees with the name change, they have a right to show up to the hearing and explain their side.
Notice to other parents or guardians is required
The parent or guardian who is petitioning to change the minor’s name will need to make sure the other parent or guardian is notified.
If the other parent or guardian disagrees with the name change, they have a right to show up to the hearing and explain their side. If they agree with the name change, the non-petitioning parent or guardian can waive their right to notice by signing the form N-107 . If the other parent does not respond or appear in court, the judge will presume they do not object to the name change.
What if it isn’t safe to notify the other parent?
If you have sole parental rights and responsibilities of the child and if you can prove that the child is a victim of abuse or you or the child are currently in reasonable fear about your safety or the safety of the child, you can ask the court to limit the notice requirement. you can request an exception to the notice requirement. Please reach out to us or contact the Probate Clerk if you have questions or want to explore this further.
What if I do not know where the other parent is?
If you need to give notice to the other parent, but do not know where they are, the Judge may ask to have a conference with you. They may require you to file an ‘ affidavit of diligent search ’, a document showing what you have done to locate the missing parent.
What if I do not know the name of the other parent?
If the name of the other parent is unknown, the Judge may ask to have a conference with the parent filing for the name change to decide how to give notice.
How do I notify the other parent or guardian I am asking to change a minor’s name?
The court clerk can tell you how the notice should be served on the other parent. We recommend calling the clerk to check how they do this.
If the notice was delivered by ‘personal service by sheriff,’ you may get a form from the sheriff's office once they have served the other parent. You should save the form and file it with the court.
If notice is served by certified, restricted delivery mail, you may need to complete an ‘affidavit of service.’. You would attach a copy of the notice served along with the green return receipt card from the post office.
What happens once the fees are paid and papers are filed?
The Petition and supporting documents are recorded by the court on the ‘docket’ or court schedule. A ‘return date’ is assigned.
Possible Hearing: In some courts the return date is when you need to come to court or appear on Zoom for a hearing. If someone comes to court on that date to object to the name change the Judge may hold a hearing that day.
Some courts do not require a hearing for a name change. In this case, the 'return date’ is the last day someone could file an objection to the name change petition. Once this date passes, the judge will most likely approve the petition and issue the certificate of name change.
If there is a contested hearing (where the parents or guardians disagree about whether the minor’s name should be changed) the Judge will consider special ‘Best Interest factors’ to determine whether to grant the name change. These factors include:
How much or how often the minor is using a particular name,
whether the minor’s name is different from the name of their siblings,
any difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment that the minor may experience from their current or proposed name,
the minor’s own preference and expressions of what they want, and
if the minor is 14 or older, whether they consent to the name change.
The court can also consider any other factor relevant to the minor’s best interests, including the general “best interests” factors used in other cases involving children.
If the minor is 14 years old or older, the Judge will probably want to hear from them directly and give weight to what the minor says they want.
Is the name change case confidential?
Court records are usually public, but a court can make a name change case for a minor confidential. Tell the court if you want the case made confidential.
Do I have to update the birth certificate, too? If I want to, how do I change a birth record to reflect the name change?
No, you do not have to update the birth record as part of the name change process. But, you may want to amend the birth record for your own peace of mind or just because you would prefer to do so.
If the birth took place in the State of Maine , you can fill out and file with the court form VS-14, Notification of Legal Change of Name.
If you are in Probate Court, the court will sign and forward this form to Vital Records in Augusta.
If you are in District Court, the court will complete its part of the VS-14 Form and return it to you, along with instructions for what you will need to do to file it with Vital Records.
The fee for amending the birth record is $60.00. This fee is paid to the Treasurer, State of Maine. You will receive a new birth record directly from the Vital Records office.
If the birth took place outside the State of Maine , you will need to contact the place of birth yourself to find out what is required of them to amend the birth record.
English
Link to Welcome Page
Contact PTLA to get legal help
x Can we help you find information?
You seem to be interested in issues around Divorce, Custody, & Family
Yes
Let's start! Help me find information
about something else. No thanks.
Please don't ask again.