0
Transformation Project
Support Programs
Get Help
Referral List, Welcome Kit, Name Change and Gender Correction Info, Links for binders and undergarments and more!
For transgender youth up through age 18, parents/guardians of trans youth, and trans adults 18+.
Learn More
Safe Space
Safe Space is a support group that provides the SD transgender/nonbinary/gender-diverse/Two-Spirit community to connect and communicate with peers about ongoing issues that are directly affecting the community. It is a safe space that allows everyone the opportunity to give and receive support in their personal experiences and share the knowledge and familiarity that comes with those experiences. Group members are able to find connections to the community, strengthen resilience, increase access to resources and services, and have the benefit of learning through other people's experiences while also sharing their own.
Ages 18+
Weekly on Tuesdays
Virtual and in person
Sign Up Here
Marty's Closet
Looking for clothing that reflects your authentic self? Want to update your closet to go with your fluid style?
Marty's Closet has thousands of items of clothing available for all gender-diverse South Dakotans and those within a 90 mile radius of SD!
See More
Youth Events
See all of our Youth Events on the Events Page.
See More
Discord
For members of the transgender community, parents/relatives, and partners of trans folks!
This is a safe space for those aged 18+ to connect with like-minded individuals, find support, and access valuable resources.
Our server will have private channels created for different topics and a resource channel to ensure everyone has access to the information they need. Plus, all channels are completely private and confidential.
Join
Affirmative CBT
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy psychoeducational group for gender non-conforming adults.
Please note there are no current sessions of Affirmative CBT.
Learn More
Mentorship Program
Mentorship Program coming soon
Learn More
See What else we have going on at the
Prism Community Center
Visit