Go to Content
Planned Parenthood Care, From Anywhere
Get sexual and reproductive health care from the experts with Planned Parenthood telehealth. It’s the safe and inclusive space you trust – wherever you need it. Have a virtual visit with a provider for a number of our services. Select your state below to get started.
Schedule Online
Call Now
Call Now
Schedule a Telehealth Visit with a Provider
We offer telehealth visits for patients physically located in Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota, and South Dakota at the time of their appointment – you do not need to be a resident .
Iowa
If you will be located in Iowa at the time of your appointment, you can schedule online.
Book Now
Minnesota
If you will be located in Minnesota at the time of your appointment, you can schedule online.
Book Now
Nebraska
If you will be located in Nebraska at the time of your appointment, you can schedule online.
Book Now
South Dakota
If you will be located in South Dakota at the time of your appointment, you can schedule online.
Book Now
North Dakota
Do you live in North Dakota? There are options for online care in your state.
Learn More
How to Prepare
Have questions or something doesn’t feel quite right? You can have a telehealth appointment to discuss what’s going on. From pain during sex to erectile dysfunction, we’re here to talk through any sexual and reproductive health concerns you have on your mind.
Telehealth Services
You can have an online visit with one of our providers for a wide range of services, including:
Birth Control
We have a variety of options to access birth control without a physical exam.
Through a telehealth video visit. We’re in network for most insurance plans and have reduced or no-cost options for those who qualify.
Through the Planned Parenthood Direct app . If you use the app, you will answer questions about your health that a provider will review. This is different than a telehealth visit. Please note, Planned Parenthood Direct is currently self-pay at this time.
Shipping on birth control refills is free .
Transgender Hormone Therapy
Just like in-person, your provider will review your medical history, review the informed consent form with you, discuss your goals, and answer any questions you may have. Please note, patients will need to have periodic in-person visits to complete the lab work, but your provider will discuss this with you in your telehealth visit.
UTI Screening and Treatment
Your provider will review your medical history and you can discuss any symptoms you are experiencing plus your best treatment course. Your provider will determine whether you need further follow-up during your visit. Follow-up may be either in-person or via telehealth and your provider will discuss this with you.
We also offer this service via the Planned Parenthood Direct app . Please note, Planned Parenthood Direct is currently self-pay at this time.
Intrauterine Device (IUD) and Birth Control Implant Consultation
Interested in a long-acting reversible contraceptive? Just like in-person, your provider will discuss whether an IUD or implant may be the best option for you. If it is determined this is an appropriate option, you will be referred to a health center for the procedure.
Mental Health Treatment
Just like in-person, your provider will complete a full assessment of your symptoms and medical history. If the diagnosis is depression and/or anxiety with no additional complications (as determined by your provider), a medication can be prescribed and sent to your pharmacy. You will be asked to follow-up monthly to ensure the correct medication and dose have been prescribed. Follow-up appointments can also be via telehealth.
PEP (for HIV Prevention) Consultation
You can schedule a telehealth appointment for a PEP consultation. Just like in-person, your provider will review your medical history during your visit. You will also discuss any symptoms you may have and your lifestyle to determine if PEP is a good fit for you.
PrEP Follow Up
We offer follow up visits for PrEP via telehealth. Initial consultation appointments must be in person at one of our health centers.
Vasectomy Consultation
Just like in-person, you can have a consult about whether a vasectomy may be an appropriate option for you. If it is determined this is an appropriate option, you will be referred to a health center for the procedure.
Tobacco Cessation
Ready to quit smoking so you can live your best, healthiest life? Our expert providers are always here to discuss your options with you so we can help you stop using tobacco. Planned Parenthood is here to support you on your personal path to better health with personalized care.
Medication Abortion (MN only)
Our telehealth services make abortion care more accessible with the same level of care, comfort, and safety as a traditional medication abortion (also known as the "abortion pill."). This service is currently available to patients with a Minnesota address.
During your telehealth visit, you will have an online video visit with one of our expert providers. After you complete your online visit, the medication will be shipped to the Minnesota mailing address you provide.
Infections – Vaginitis, BV, and UTI
Feeling itchy? Noticing changes in discharge or smell? Does it hurt to pee? You may have vaginitis (e.g. yeast infection), bacterial vaginosis (BV), or a urinary tract infection (UTI ). If you’re having symptoms or something doesn’t feel 100%, you can have a telehealth appointment with a provider to help figure out what’s going on.
During your telehealth appointment, your provider will review any symptoms you are experiencing and as well as your best treatment course. Your provider will determine whether you need further follow-up during your visit. Follow-up may be either in-person or via telehealth. Your provider will discuss this with you.
Sexual and reproductive health concerns
It’s totally normal to have questions about sex and your body. You know your body best, if something doesn’t feel right, you can have a telehealth appointment to discuss what’s going on. From pain during sex to erectile dysfunction, we’re here to talk through any sexual and reproductive health concerns you have on your mind.
Services for people with a vagina:
Concerns about sex drive (little or no interest in sex)
C oncerns about changes in sensation
Problems with decreased vaginal lubrication (vaginal dryness)
Difficulty having orgasms (cumming or climaxing)
Experiencing pain during sex
Services for people with a penis:
Difficulty getting or keeping an erection (staying hard); e rectile dysfunction
Concerns about ejaculation (cumming before you want to, or difficulty finishing)
Menopause Care
For a menopause management telehealth appointment, you’ll meet with a provider and discuss your concerns and symptoms. During your visit, a provider may recommend treatment and will discuss those next steps with you.
Select Primary Care
We now offer primary care services for certain ongoing conditions, like anemia, asthma, diabetes, cholesterol disorders, GERD (acid reflux/heartburn), headaches, hypertension (high blood pressure), hypothyroidism (low or underactive thyroid), and more!
We’re also happy to help with anything from minor illnesses and infections to seasonal allergies, as well as basic stomach (gastrointestinal) and skin/rash issues.
Planned Parenthood Direct
An app for birth control visits and UTI screening and treatment! It's quick and easy.
Learn More
Spot On - Period Tracker
Track your period, cycle, fertility, or any method that affects your cycle, including pill, patch, ring, shot, IUD, or implant.
Download the App
Roo - expert answers, every time
Roo answers all the questions you may have about sexual health, relationships, and more. Chatting with Roo is free and private, so go ahead and ask the things you don't want to ask out loud.
Chat with Roo
FAQs
Will my information be safe?
Yes! Our technology and processes comply with health care industry security standards and our trained staff ensure all the proper data protections are in place to safeguard your privacy. Your provider will conduct your telehealth visit in a secure and private room to ensure your confidentiality.
Are telehealth visits shorter or more rushed than in-person visits?
Not at all. The length of your visit is determined by your needs. Telehealth visits are conducted by the same providers who work at our health centers and are here to make sure your needs are met.
Do I have to expose myself over the video or the internet?
No. Your provider will not conduct a physical exam over video. If a physical exam is recommended your provider will help you schedule a visit in one of our health centers as a next step.
Don’t I need a physical exam to get treatment?
Telehealth is a trusted and secure way to access your care and we can address many health issues without a physical exam. Your provider will discuss with you whether you need in-person follow-up.
What if I need additional tests or follow-up?
Just like in-person visits, sometimes you will need a follow-up visit. Depending on your treatment plan, you may be asked to schedule another telehealth visit or go to a health center for follow-up. Your provider will discuss this with you in detailed instruction, if applicable.
Will I be billed differently if I use telehealth versus an in-person visit?
You are not charged more or less based on whether you visit us via telehealth or in-person. Billing is based on factors like labs and tests your provider may order, medications prescribed, and the amount of time your provider spends with you to provide the best care possible.
Does Planned Parenthood take insurance?
If you have a telehealth visit, just like our health centers, we are in-network for most insurance plans and offer reduced or no-cost options for those who qualify. Learn more about insurance and payment.
Please note, birth control or UTI screening/treatment through the Planned Parenthood Direct app is currently self-pay. We do not accept insurance for Planned Parenthood Direct visits at this time.
What is the difference between a telehealth visit and a Planned Parenthood Direct visit?
Telehealth appointments are scheduled online or by phone. You will receive an email and text link for your video visit. At the time of your appointment, you will connect with a provider via live video and complete the visit with them in real time. The structure of the appointment is very similar to our in-person visits. We offer a wide range of services by telehealth.
The Planned Parenthood Direct App is a text-based telehealth appointment and does not offer live video visits. Instead, you will answer some questions related to your health history securely through the app. A Planned Parenthood medical provider will review your answers. Based on your health history, if you are eligible to receive care online, the provider writes the prescription within one business day. The only services currently provided by the app are birth control, UTI diagnosis and treatment, and emergency contraception (available in select states).
What kind of appointment can I schedule online?
You can schedule a telehealth appointment online for the following services:
birth control, emergency contraception, UTI screening, PEP consultation, IUD consultation, transgender hormone therapy, and asymptomatic STD testing services.
Can I schedule a PrEP Telehealth appointment?
You cannot schedule a telehealth visit for an initial PrEP consultation – these appointments must be in person at one of our health centers. However, you can schedule a telehealth visit for a PrEP follow-up appointment.
What’s happens during a sexual and reproductive health concerns visit?
During a sexual and reproductive concerns visit, you will have a video visit with a provider to discuss any issues or questions you may have. From pain during sex to erectile dysfunction, our expert providers offer a safe and non-judgemental space to listen and help figure out what’s going on.
After the appointment, just like in-person visits, sometimes you may need a follow-up visit. Depending on your treatment plan, you may be asked to schedule another telehealth visit or go to a health center for follow-up. Your provider will discuss this with you and provide detailed instruction, if applicable.
Some examples of issues or topics you can have a visit for:
Concerns about sex drive (little or no interest in sex)
Concerns about vaginal dryness
Difficulty having orgasms (cumming or climaxing)
Problems with pain during sex/experiencing pain during sex
Erectile dysfunction/difficulty getting or keeping an erection (staying hard)
Concerns about ejaculation (cumming before you want to, or difficulty finishing)
Concerns about changes in sensation
Health Care Services
Prepare for Your Visit
Birth Control Refills
Insurance and Payment
Financial Help
Acknowledgements
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all