Skip to main content
DPS Driver Service Bureau
Driving Mississippi Forward
Search
DPS Driver Service Bureau
Driving Mississippi Forward
Search
Transparency
Contact DSB
Proof of Domicile Documents Accepted:
All applicants applying for a driver's license or identification card must provide two proofs of Mississippi residency. Any item presented to establish proof of residency must include the applicant's name and a Mississippi residence address (No P.O. boxes will be accepted). No junk mail/soliciting, no envelopes, no handwritten documents/letters will be accepted.
Utility Bill (Electric, Water, Gas, or Cable)
Bank statement with physical address (no blank checks accepted)
Paycheck stub (If it has Name and Address)
Lease/Purchase agreement, Rental agreement
Bureau of Indian Affairs Card/Indian Treaty Card
Medical records/bills from doctor/hospital
Military Discharge/Separation papers
IRS/State tax forms/W-2 (must be returned taxes)
Employer ID card with address
Firearm Permit
Pilot’s License
School record/transcript/report card
Vehicle title, Vehicle registration or Car Tag registration receipt
Voter registration card with physical address
Life, Health, Auto or Home Insurance Policy
Mortgage papers
Property tax statement
Mississippi license issued to parent or legal guardian
Official Proof of Domicile Affidavit - Roommates, Landlords, Parents or Guardians
Federal documents - W-2, Medicaid, Child Support, and Social Security document
Internet or any Phone bills
Credit card statements
Military Orders or Military Documents
Any official Government (city, county, state or federal) document or letter with applicant’s address.
Homestead Exemption Receipt
Notarized employer verification on their letterhead stating address of applicant (must include phone number)
Sex Offender registration documents
Applicants under 21 years of age may use documentation that applies to their parent’s or guardian’s domicile.
Applicants 21 years and older: If no bills or similar documents feature the name of the applicant, the applicant may use the spouse or parent, but must produce a marriage license or birth certificate proving legal status. In the case of roommates, landlords, parents, or guardians, the applicant may use the Proof of Domicile Affidavit in conjunction with a driver’s license or identification card (same address as applicant) or one acceptable document to complete the requirement of two proofs of domicile.
Any additional documentation or explanation you wish to provide to support your claim for residency maybe presented. Acceptance is at the sole discretion of the Driver Service Bureau.
Acceptable Documents to verify Date of Birth :
Birth Certificate (original), small card or full size will now be accepted as long as they have a state seal and certificate number. Certificate must be original or certified copy. (No Photocopies Accepted)
Certificate of Naturalization
Certificate of Citizenship
The following website will aid you in obtaining your Birth Certificate: Mississippi (MS) Vital Records | State Certificates - VitalChek
Verification of Social Security Number:
Social Security Card; or an official government correspondence displaying full 9 digits such as but not limited to: W-2 Form (returned), 1099 Form (returned), Pay stub with applicant’s name and full Social Security Number, U.S. Military Form DD-214 or National Guard Form NGB-22. The following website will aid you in obtaining a replacement social security card or name change: Social Security Number and Card | SSA
Name Change - Legal Documents:
Driver Service Bureau will only accept the below listed legal documents in order to change an applicant’s name on a driver’s license or identification card:
Marriage License
Divorce Decree
Adoption Order
Court Order
The following website will aid you in obtaining the above legal documents: Mississippi (MS) Vital Records | State Certificates - VitalChek
Note: The social security card does not have to contain the new name upon initial transaction, however, the applicant is strongly encouraged to update their social security card prior to renewing their driver’s license or identification card. The following website will aid you in updating your social security card with your new name: Social Security Number and Card | SSA
Driver Self-Service
Schedule an Appointment
Renew your Driver's License
Learner’s Permit
Duplicate License
Pay your Reinstatement Fee
Driver License Locations
Request your Motor Vehicle Record