Go to Content
Register Today
Make an Appointment Today
Planned Parenthood Southeastern Pennsylvania
Come in for expert health care, honest answers, and personal attention.
MAKE AN APPOINTMENT
We're Hiring!
APPLY NOW
Learn More
Telehealth Appointments Available
High-quality, affordable care — wherever you are. We offer expert, trusted telehealth services.
*You must be located in Pennsylvania to receive virtual care or medications.
Learn More
Learn More
Schedule an Appointment
Schedule Now
Pay Your Bill
Pay Now
Ways to Give
Support our mission
Special Events
Learn more
Education
LEARN MORE
Volunteer
Get Involved
Careers and Internships
We gladly accept resumes for clinicians (nurse practitioners) and/or bi-lingual Call Center Representatives (fluency in English and Spanish required) at any time.
We&#x27;re Hiring
Clinical Research at Planned Parenthood
We partner with pharmaceutical companies that create new forms of treatment, diagnosis and prevention for cervical cancer, herpes, and STDs.
Learn more
Learn More
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all