Scam Alert!
The Virginia DMV is aware of fraudulent text and email messages that are being sent regarding fines and suspensions. DMV will NEVER send text messages or emails about your fines or suspensions, or request you share financial details by text or email. Report and delete unwanted text messages and emails. Use your Delete and Report Spam options to report unwanted texts and emails.
Dismiss Alert
Change Address, Name or Sex Designation
DMV makes it easy to update your personal information as quickly as your life changes.
How to Change Your Address
The fastest and easiest way to change your address on your DMV record and documents is online.
Change Address
You can also use any method below:
Call DMV at (804) 497-7100
Make an appointment at any DMV customer service center
Mail a completed Address Change Request Form to:
Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles
PO Box 27412
Richmond, VA 23269
When should I change my address?
Within 30 days of moving to a new Virginia residence, you must notify DMV and provide the new street address. A P.O. box or business address is not acceptable.
What happens if I change to an out-of-state address?
If you change your residence address or mailing address to a non-Virginia address, DMV may cancel your driver's license or photo ID card.
Exceptions may be made for some individuals, such as active duty military personnel and Virginia residents employed outside of Virginia. See Apply for a Non-Virginia Address Exception for more.
Can I register to vote when I change my address?
When you update your address with DMV, you can also apply to register to vote or change your voter registration address at the same time.
How can I update my address on my license or ID?
If you are due to renew your license or ID , please ensure that your current address is on file with DMV before the renewal is processed.
If not due for renewal soon, you would need to replace your license or ID for the address to be reflected there.
Note
You may purchase a new driver's license or photo ID card showing the address change. You may also get a revised vehicle registration card .
How to Change Your Name
To change your name on your DMV record, credentials and documents,
Start online or complete a Driver's License and Identification Card Application requesting a name change.
Visit a DMV customer service center and bring: One document listed below: Marriage certificate or civil union document (including same-sex marriage certificates)
Divorce decree if the decree states the change from married name to maiden name
Court order granting the name change
Your valid Virginia-issued driver's license, learner's permit or photo identification card, if you currently hold one
If you started applying online: Your confirmation email.
If you cannot present your Virginia driver's license, learner's permit, commercial driver’s license (CDL), CDL instruction permit or photo identification, then you must present one proof of identity .
If you’re moving to Virginia and changing your name, when you’re applying for your first driver's license or ID card, you must also present documents proving identity, residency and legal presence .
See our acceptable documents guide .
Start Name Change
Document Do’s and Don’ts
Do use your full legal name on all documents. Don’t use abbreviations and nicknames, as they will not be accepted.
Do submit original documents, as they will be subject to verification. Don’t use copies.
Note: DMV will not accept documents if there’s reason to believe they are illegitimate. DMV may require additional documents or change which documents are accepted without prior notice.
Have a valid Virginia license or ID?
If so, you’ll need to get a replacement driver's license or ID card once your name change has been processed.
Sex Designation Change
You may be eligible to change your sex designation online .
If not, you can change your sex designation any time you apply for, renew or replace a driver’s license , learner's permit , identification card or driver privilege card .
Sex designation indicators are displayed on your DMV credential as male (M), female (F) or non-binary (X). Certification from a healthcare provider is not required.