Skip to main content
Apply for MO HealthNet
If you need translation services, call 1-855-373-4636 and ask for a translator. Call TTY/TDD 1-800-735-2966 / 1-800-735-2466 for American Sign Language. If you are deaf or hard of hearing, call Relay Missouri at 711.
Cómo solicitar MO HealthNET (Missouri Medicaid)
What help is available?
If you do not have health insurance or you need help paying for your health care, you may be eligible for coverage through Missouri’s Medicaid program, called MO HealthNet.
Who is eligible?
Eligibility for MO HealthNet depends on your income , age, health, and individual needs. You may be eligible if you are a(n):
Senior (age 65 and older)
Parent or caretaker with a child (under age 19)
Child (age birth -18)
Woman (age 18-55) with no health insurance
Adult (age 19-64) without disabilities
Pregnant woman (including unborn child)
Woman (under age 65) with breast or cervical cancer
Person with disabilities
Blind or visually impaired adult
How do I apply?
You can apply for healthcare coverage by completing these simple steps:
1
Apply
There are many ways you can apply for healthcare coverage:
Apply through the online portal
Apply by phone at 855-373-9994
Download & print, or scan application ( aplicación Español ) - You must use Adobe Reader
2
Complete Form
You must complete & submit the Supplemental Form ( Forma Español ) with your application if you:
Are age 65 or older
Are blind or disabled
Get Social Security
Live in a medical or nursing facility
Have Medicare or VA healthcare
3
Submit
You can submit your completed form(s) in one of these ways:
Online : mydssupload.mo.gov
Mail : Family Support Division
P.O. Box 2700
Jefferson City, MO 65102
Fax : 573-526-9400
In Person : Visit your local Family Support Division Resource Center
When will I get coverage?
If you applied for healthcare coverage, we will let you know what might be needed to process your application. The time it takes to process your application may vary, and if we have to make an eligibility decision based on a disability, it may take longer than usual. If you do not receive anything from the Family Support Division after 45 days, you can contact us.
Once your application is processed, you will get a letter that let’s you know if you are eligible for healthcare coverage or not. If you are approved, you will receive a MO HealthNet Identification Card and information explaining the type of services and coverage you have. You will need to follow the instructions in this letter for your coverage to begin.
Other MO HealthNet Programs
Spend Down : If you make too much money, you may still be able to get MO HealthNet coverage if you agree to pay, or “ spend down ,” a certain amount. Once you spend this amount, you will have MO HealthNet coverage for the month. For more information visit our frequently asked questions
Ticket to Work : If you are disabled and make too much money to qualify for MO HealthNet, you can still get help with your healthcare costs if you agree to take part in this program. Learn more about Ticket to Work .
Home & Community Based Services : These services may be able to help you or a loved one stay at home and out of a nursing home by providing the in-home services you need .
MO HealthNet Nursing Home Coverage : If you live in a nursing home, we may be able to help pay for any nursing home costs you aren’t responsible for. You will be responsible for using all of your income towards costs except for a $50 monthly allowance, any health insurance premiums, and any income set aside for a spouse or other dependents .
The Health Insurance Premium Payment (HIPP) Program : The Health Insurance Premium Payment (HIPP) Program helps pay for the cost of health insurance premiums for certain MO HealthNet participants.
Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment (BCCT): The Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment program is available for uninsured women under the age of 65 who have been screened and determined to need treatment for breast or cervical cancer by a provider. This includes treatment of certain pre-cancerous conditions and early-stage cancer. The BCCT program is intended for women ineligible for all other MO HealthNet programs.
Supplemental Nursing Care Program : If you live in a residential care facility or assisted living facility, the Supplemental Nursing Care Program will give you a monthly allowance of $50 for personal needs and a cash payment to your facility ($156 per month for residential care or $292 per month for assisted living).
Medicare Cost Savings Programs (QMB & SLMB) : You may be able to get help paying for your Medicare premiums and certain copayments through one of our Medicare Cost Savings Programs .
Supplemental Aid for the Blind : The Supplemental Aid for the Blind program offers a monthly cash grant and MO HealthNet coverage to help blind persons meet their basic needs.
Blind Pension : Blind Pension offers a monthly cash grant and MO HealthNet Coverage to blind persons who do not qualify for help through Supplemental Aid to the Blind or Social Security Income benefits.
Show-Me Healthy Babies Program : If you are pregnant and you were not approved for coverage through MO HealthNet for Pregnant Women, help may still be available through the Show-Me Healthy Babies Program .
The Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) is administered by MO HealthNet and Medicare to provide comprehensive health care, social, recreational, and wellness services to their participants. One of the main goals of PACE is to allow older adults to live safely in their homes instead of nursing facilities. Learn more about PACE .
More Information
Apply for Program of All-Inclusive Care of the Elderly (PACE)
Manage my healthcare benefit
FAQs about applying for MO HealthNet
Verification Documents
Missouri Resource Guide | Missouri Family Resources
How to Appoint an Authorized Representative ( English ) ( Español )
Appoint an Authorized Representative Form ( English ) ( Español )
Opioid Information for Participants
Local Public Healthcare Agencies
Medicaid Expansion FAQs for Participants and Providers
Other Health Insurance Options
Health Insurance Premium Payment Program
Private Duty Nursing for Children
Benefits for Veterans
MO State Health Insurance Assistance Program (MO SHIP)
Report a Concern
Medicaid Fraud
Public Assistance Fraud
Child Abuse or Neglect
800-392-3738