Skip to main content
0
Correct or change a birth certificate
Menu Reference Left
Current processing times
We are currently processing birth certificate changes or corrections received on or before:
08/12/2026
Processing time for correction requests: 30 business days from the date received.
To request a correction or change to a birth certificate, you must submit the following:
Completed birth certificate correction form | Español .
Copy of your identification .
Documentary evidence of the change or correction as outlined below.
Non-refundable processing fees .
NOTE: Due to the high volume of incoming requests we cannot confirm if your request has arrived in office and is pending processing. You may mail your application using a trackable shipping method such as certified mail, FedEx, or UPS if you need confirmation on the arrival date.
In-person
Our office is open to the public by appointment only. You must schedule an appointment in advance, no walk-in services will be available. Appointments are opened on the 1st of every month until filled. Availability may change daily, and additional appointments may become available due to cancellations.
Examples of change services
​Name change
Add or remove second parent (parentage)
Sex/gender designation changes
To change given name on a birth certificate of a person younger than 1 year , send a completed and signed birth certificate correction form as outlined above.
To change the given name on a birth certificate of a person older than 1 year , contact your local county court to obtain a certified copy of a legal name change order before submitting the birth certificate correction form. The legal name change form can be downloaded from the Colorado State Judicial Branch .
Add a father/second parent to a birth certificate (Unmarried Parents)
To add a father/second parent to a birth certificate where a father/second parent is not currently listed, complete and submit the Voluntary Acknowledgement of Parentage form | In Spanish . Please refer to the Voluntary Acknowledgement of Parentage form for case-specific requirements. A court-determined parentage may be required in some cases.
If the registrant is an adult (18 years old or older), complete and submit the Data Worksheet to consent to add the father/second parent, signed by the adult registrant.
Remove/Add/Change a father/second parent from a birth certificate
(Court-Determined Parentage)
Court-determined paternity/parentage documents are required to ADD, REMOVE, or CHANGE a father's/second parent's name on a birth certificate. You must submit certified court documents showing paternity/parentage determination with a completed Data Worksheet for the new birth certificate.
If another individual is currently listed as the parent of the child on the original certificate, the court order must specify to remove their name.
A new certificate may be prepared only when a determination of paternity/parentage is made by a court of competent jurisdiction or following adoption. A divorce decree is not acceptable evidence regarding paternity/parentage.
Report of paternity/parentage determination (for court use only).
Certified copies of acknowledgement of parentage
Application for a certified copy of acknowledgment of parentage (opens in new window) .
A certified copy of the acknowledgement of parentage can be used as evidence to establish paternity/parentage for agencies such as the Social Security Administration. A divorce decree is not acceptable evidence regarding paternity/parentage.
The birth certificate correction form cannot be used to add/remove a father/second parent to/from the birth certificate
This type of sex/gender designation change is different from when misinformation is recorded during the filing of the original birth certificate.
To request a sex/gender designation change to your birth certificate, please submit the following in person or by mail:
Completed Birth Certificate Correction Form | In Spanish
Copy of your identification .
Non-refundable processing fee(s) .
A completed Sex/Gender Designation form OR Certified copy of a court order indicating the Sex/Gender has been changed via surgical procedure.
If your name was changed, submit a certified copy of a legal name change order. For name changes completed in Colorado, you can get a certified copy through the Colorado Judicial Branch .
Board of Health Rule covering sex/gender designation changes, please refer to "5 CCR 1006-1, Vital Statistics" .
The State Registrar shall change the sex/gender designation pursuant to a request made under Section 5.5(C)(2) only once during an individual's lifetime. Any further amendment to the sex/gender designation on a birth record or certificate requires a court order pursuant to Section 5.5(C)(1).
Order birth certificate online
Report missing certificate
Contact us
Take our customer satisfaction survey
Original text
Rate this translation
Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate