Skip to content
Gender-Affirming Care
Blue Mountain Clinic has provided gender-affirming care for our community for over a decade
(406) 721-1646
New Patient Info
We understand that every patient has individualized needs, and we&#8217;re dedicated to working with you to provide comprehensive healthcare that is right for you. Our team of healthcare providers is here to empower and advocate throughout each person&#8217;s journey, promoting wellness and celebrating the diversity of gender identities. At Blue Mountain Clinic, we guarantee safe, confidential, and supportive full spectrum healthcare to our trans, nonbinary, and Two Spirit patients.
Call Blue Mountain Clinic to schedule an appointment or ask questions about our gender-affirming care services.
(406) 721-1646
New Patient Info
Blue Mountain Clinic has an internal Access Fund for our patients seeking abortion care, contraception, or gender-affirming care who are experiencing financial barriers to healthcare. If you’re a BMC patient in need of assistance covering the costs of gender-affirming care, please reach out to us!
Gender-Affirming Care Services
Hormone Replacement Therapy
Blue Mountain Clinic offers injection therapy (can be performed in clinic or self administered), gels, patches, and tablets.
Referrals and medical advocacy for gender-affirming surgery
Family Medicine Services
More information about our family medicine services can be accessed here .
Visits only when medically necessary
Assistance with legal name change documents
What can you expect when receiving gender-affirming care at Blue Mountain Clinic?
Understanding, compassionate healthcare providers who are experienced in providing care to people of all genders
Medically managed hormone therapy
Advocacy
Walk-in injection support and injection training
For established patients, our medical team is happy to administer your injections or offer injection training to patients who’d like to self-administer safely at home. Come by the clinic during our walk-in hours (8:30-12PM and 2-4PM Mon-Thurs, 8:30-12PM Friday), to receive support from our medical team.
(406) 721-1646
(406) 721-1646
Contact Us
Patient Portal
Request Abortion Appointment
Call Now Button