Skip to content
All Issues
Our Programs
Latest Updates
LGBTQ Law UNIT
Fighting for the rights of LGBTQ communities.
We envision a world where all people, regardless of sexual or gender identity, have access to legal protections under the law, dignified work, adequate housing and health care, the right to create families, and the ability to live fulfilling lives. Toward that end, we provide legal services to LGBTQ communities to meet the unique legal needs of queer individuals.
770
LGBTQ+ clients worked with NYLAG on legal issues ranging from name changes to estate planning last year
Services
Our attorneys fight for LGBTQ rights. We offer the following legal services:
Working with LGBTQ clients on immigration cases
Fighting employment and housing discrimination
Helping with name and gender marker changes
Assisting with adoptions, uncontested divorces, orders of protection, and custody
Advocating for LGBTQ students
Ensuring that LGBTQ seniors control their future with advance directives
Need free legal services or financial counseling?
WE CAN HELP
Resources for Transgender Rights
From healthcare and employment matters to family, name and gender marker changes, NYLAG is here to help. The rollback of rights at the federal level continues to spread fear and confusion throughout our country as hateful attacks on trans and gender-nonconforming people threaten the very livelihood of our trans community members.
Whether it&#8217;s healthcare, employment, family, or name and gender marker changes, NYLAG is here to help. You can find the latest resources on your rights and legal protections at the button below.
KNOW YOUR RIGHTS
Help us provide free legal help to LGBTQ communities.
DONATE NOW
The Latest on LGBTQ Law
CityLimits: Back of the Ballot: New York Voters to Weigh In On Equal Protection Amendment This Fall
April 17, 2024
With the Equal Protection of Law Amendment on New Yorkers’ ballots in November, Heather Betz, Director of NYLAG’s LGBTQ+ Law Unit, provided context for the amendment to CityLimits as it pertains to the LGBTQ community.
Read More »
Long-Term Support from Orrick Strengthens NYLAG&#8217;s LGBTQ Advocacy
June 30, 2023
NYLAG is proud to highlight the socially conscious law firm, Orrick, Herrington &#038; Sutcliffe LLP for their continuous support of NYLAG’s LGBTQ+ Law Project. With support from Orrick and their commitment to racial, economic, and social justice, we were able to provide 534 New Yorkers with free civil legal services on 715 cases in the last year.
Read More »
Pride Month Is All Year in the Fight for Justice
June 17, 2022
The LGBTQ+ community has had to fight for generations for the rights they have now. To respond to ongoing discrimination and a scary string of setbacks across the country that threaten the very identities, safety, and health of LGBTQ+ people, we are all needed.
Read More »
see all posts
Help us provide free legal services to children and adults in need of a lawyer.
DONATE NOW
Join our mailing list. Get action alerts, updates, and special invites.
firstname
lastname
email
SIGN UP
Scroll to Top