Contact
Patient Portal
Schedule Online
Pay Bill
Donate
Clinic Services
Birth Control
Pregnancy Care
PrEP
Preventative Care
STI Testing &#038; Care
Education Services
Education for Youth
Request a Presentation for Youth
Education for Parents
Request a Presentation for Parents
Professional Development
Request a Professional Development Training
Resources
Community Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
News &#038; Advice
Clinic Tour
Get Involved
Events Calendar
Career Opportunities
Community Outreach
Donate
Volunteer
About Us
Contact
Mission and Vision
Our Values
Our Commitment
Best Practices
Finances &#038; Accountability
Meet the Executive Team
Is it time
for the "talk"?
We are here to help. Get the
information you need to feel
prepared and confident.
Contact Us
We are here
to help
you.
Make your appointment today. Your call
and visit are completely confidential.
Contact Us
Make your
appointment
today
Your body is important and we are
here to help. Call us to ask questions
or make an appointment.
Contact Us
We are here
to help you.
Make your appointment today. Your call
and visit are completely confidential.
Contact Us
Request a presentation
for young people
The young people you work with deserve
fact-based, inclusive, and interactive sex ed.
Get in touch to schedule a session.
Learn More
BLACK LIVES
MATTER.
At the Annex Teen Clinic, we believe that sexual and reproductive health cannot exist without racial and social justice. A commitment to anti-racism in our work is central to just and ethical sexual healthcare and education.
Our Commitment
Support our
young people!
Contributing to the Annex means greater
access to confidential, factual
sexual health education and
clinic services for the youth
in your community.
Learn more
Mission
The Annex helps young people take charge of their whole health by providing equitable, accessible, and confidential sexual health services and education .
Did You Know You Can Get Your Prescription Refilled at the Annex?
It&#8217;s true, and you don&#8217;t even need an appointment! You can walk in to get your prescription anytime during business hours or call/text 763.533.1316 to schedule a pick up ahead of time.
When you pick up your prescription at the Annex instead of at a pharmacy, insurers pay the Annex for the prescription. This means you increase the amount of financial support the Annex receives, at no additional cost to you.
Depending on your financial coverage and prescription, you can pick up most medications from the Annex every 1 to 3 months. But you can also pick up condoms, lube, and emergency contraception at the Annex as often as you need them! We are here to make accessing sexual healthcare as easy as possible.
Text or call 763.533.1316 to refill your prescription today! We look forward to seeing you.
Contact Us
Service at the Annex is:
Confidential Service
Safe Service
Low to No Cost Service
Informative Service
Supportive Service
Caring Service
Learn More About Clinic Services
What Our Clients Say
You guys are lifesavers!
You guys are lifesavers! I honestly don’t know what I’d do without you. I’m a thankful high school student who doesn’t have money to pay for these services and can’t risk my parents finding out that I need them. The world needs more places like the Annex!
Clinic Patient
Get updates from the Annex!
Subscribe
Annex Teen Clinic
The Annex Teen Clinic helps young people take charge of their sexual health by providing confidential health services and education.
Your right to access these services without anyone&#8217;s permission or knowledge after the fact is protected by law. Confidentiality is important to us because we know it&#8217;s important to you.
No one is turned away for their inability to pay, and you will be treated with dignity, compassion, and respect as an individual.
You will not be subject to discrimination for any reason, including for reasons of race, ethnicity, culture, language, sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression, disability, religion, or socioeconomic status.
Outreach Events
September 7, 2026 – Annex Closed
September 7, 2026 – Annex Closed
Visit Us
763.533.1316
5810 42nd Ave N
Robbinsdale, MN 55422
CLINIC HOURS
Monday: 9 am – 6 pm
Tuesday: 9 am – 12 pm, 1 pm - 6 pm
Wednesday: 9 am – 6 pm
Thursday: 9 am – 6 pm
Friday: 10 am – 2 pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
&copy; 2012 - 2026 Annex Teen Clinic
Made with a Copilot
X
The Annex Teen Clinic is here for you! Please call or text to schedule an appointment at 763.533.1316.
Call Now
MENU
Annex Teen Clinic
&times; Close Panel