Skip to content
File a Complaint
OSI Events Calendar
View our calendar of events
What does the Office of Superintendent of Insurance do?
We ensure compliance of Insurance Statutes and Regulations under the New Mexico Insurance Code by all Insurance Companies, Agents, Adjusters, Third Party Administrators, and other insurance industry staff operating within the State.
We provide consumers and the insurance company staff members with information regarding the policies and procedures involving insurance within New Mexico.
In assisting consumers, the Consumer Assistance Bureau accepts complaints who are having difficulty in dealing with insurance companies regarding policy applications, binding of policies, claim handling and other matters involving insurance.
Before filing a complaint
Contact your insurance company and request an explanation.
Make sure you have provided all information requested by the company.
If you are concerned about the handling of a health insurance claim, ask what appeal and grievance procedures are available to you. (Add MHC content)
If you are not satisfied with the company’s response to your concerns, you may consider filing a complaint. Be prepared to summarize your complaint, so people who are not familiar with your issue will be able to understand.
What the Superintendent of Insurance cannot do:
Order the company to pay your claim or refund premium
Decide who was at fault in an accident
Act as a court of law or provide legal advice
Recommend an agent, company, or products
Identify an insurance company with whom a particular person may hold a policy
Establish the facts surrounding a claim (for example: who is being truthful when there are conflicting reports of a situation)
Determine the cause of loss, the value of a claim, the amount owed to you, or act as your adjuster
Address issues the Department can’t legally enforce
Home, Auto & Life Insurance Complaint Form
Home, Auto & Life Insurance Related Complaint Form
Managed Healthcare Complaint Form
The Managed Health Care Bureau will investigate this complaint to determine if there are any violations of the New Mexico Insurance Code, Managed Health Care Rule or insurance policy language.
Managed Health Care Complaint Form
Pharmacy Benefits Complaint
“Pharmacy Benefits Manager&#8221; means a person or a wholly or partially owned or controlled subsidiary of a person that provides claims administration, benefit design and management, pharmacy network management, negotiation and administration of product discounts, rebates and other benefits accruing to the pharmacy benefits manager or other prescription drug or device services to third parties, but “pharmacy benefits manager&#8221; does not include licensed health care facilities, pharmacies, licensed health care professionals, health insurers, unions, health maintenance organizations, Medicare advantage plans or prescription drug plans when providing formulary services to their patients, employees, members or beneficiaries.
Pharmacy Benefits Manager Complaint Form
Provider Complaint Form
Office of Superintendent of Insurance investigates health care provider complaints filed against health care insurers such as health maintenance organizations, individual health plans, group and blanket plans, provider service networks, non-profit healthcare plans, and third-party payers or their agents that provide, offer or administer health benefit plans subject to the insurance laws and regulations of this state. The Superintendent can assist with grievances regarding provider termination, discrimination, credentialing, timely payment of claims and other provider concerns in regards to the operations of the health insurer or plan. Please do not use this form if you are a treating provider or facility filing on behalf of a patient for a medical benefit denial. Use the Managed Healthcare Complaint Form instead for that purpose.
Download Insurance Health Care Provider Complaint Form
Report Insurance Fraud Form
If you believe a person in New Mexico is trying to cheat or commit fraud against an insurer or agent, you should report insurance fraud to our office. Common reasons to file an insurance fraud report include:
Falsely reporting a stolen vehicle or property
Filing claims with multiple companies, sometimes known as double-dipping
Medical insurance fraud including billing for services not rendered
Report Insurance Fraud
Title Insurance Complaint Form
Title Insurance Bureau processes all complaints involving Title Insurance in New Mexico.
OSI Consumer Complaint Form
Submit all other generic questions, concerns, and complaints here:
OSI General Question/Concerns/Complaints
Recent News
Get the latest information about rule changes, legislation, industry information and consumer news.
Read All OSI News
September 1, 2026 News Releases
NEW MEXICO ANNOUNCES RATES FOR 2027 ACA PLANS, STATE PREMIUM SUPPORT WILL CONTINUE TO HELP ENROLLEES WITH COSTS
Contact: Life and Health Product Filing BureauEmail: life.health@osi.nm.gov SANTA FE, N.M. – The New Mexico Office of Superintendent of Insurance (OSI) has approved 2027 rates for individual market Affordable Care Act (ACA) plans sold on and off BeWell, the New Mexico Health Insurance Marketplace. The average increase is 24.4%; OSI scrutinized the rates and they [&hellip;]
Read More
June 26, 2026 Bulletins
MEDICAL MALPRACTICE PREMIUM REDUCTION
AMENDED BULLETIN 2026-010: The New Mexico State Legislature appropriated $5 million to the New Mexico Office of Superintendent of Insurance (OSI) to address medical malpractice insurance costs for individual providers. The appropriation was part of a supplemental appropriation package passed in 2025. This one-time appropriation directs OSI to provide a premium subsidy for private medical malpractice insurance policies. [&hellip;]
Read More