Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Puerto Rico Identity Documents
Puerto Rico Name Change Laws
To obtain a legal name change in Puerto Rico, a petitioner must petition any of the twelve regional Courts of First Instance (Tribunales de Primera Instancia) for a legal name change within the region in which they live. In San Juan, for example, the Court of First Instance is located at Munoz Rivera Ave esquina Coll y Totsta Parada 37, San Juan PR. The petition should include the current legal name of the petitioner, the proposed name, the residence of the petitioner, the place of birth of the petitioner, and copies of documents demonstrating the identification of the petitioner, including a birth certificate. Upon being granted a hearing, the court will require the petitioner to provide original identification documents, including a birth certificate. The fees for filing the petition are $75. The court has no requirement to publish a notice of the proceeding. The court order for the legal name change must be filed with the Vital Statistics Registry (Registro Democrafico, Calle Quisqueya #171, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico 00917, or any of the numerous registrant offices across the commonwealth) and the Registry will amend the name on the birth certificate by crossing out the old name and writing in the new name.
Puerto Rico Drivers License Policy & Procedures
To change a name on a driver’s license or identification card, the applicant must present to the Puerto Rico Department of Transportation and Public Works (DTOP) office an affidavit signed before a Notary Public stating the reasons for the request, and relieving DTOP from any responsibility in the transaction. The affidavit must also be accompanied by a completed driver’s license application and the order of the court demonstrating the legal change of name. For further information on a driver’s license name change see the DTOP website .
To change the gender marker on a driver's license or identification card, the applicant must fill out this gender change form and submit it to the Department of Transportation and Public Works. The form can be signed by any type of licensed clinical professional, including psychologists, therapists, and social workers.
Puerto Rico Birth Certificate Laws
As of April 2018, Puerto Rico will change the gender on a birth certificate upon receipt of certification by a professional of the gender identity of the applicant. This policy was established in the case Arroyo v. Rossello , 2018 WL 1896341 (D.P.R. Apr. 20, 2018), and is documented in the Department of Health's Circular Letter 3-18 .
To update a birth certificate, the applicant must submit the following:
An Application for Birth Certificate by Mail
To change the name, a court order for name change
To change the gender marker, an Application for Change of Gender on a Birth Certificate , along with ONE of the following:
A passport that reflects the true gender; OR
A driver's license that reflects the true gender; OR
A signature from a health care professional or mental health professional, on the bottom of the Application.
Fee of $5 for one copy, $12 for each additional copy, payable by money order made out to the Secretary of Treasury
Photocopy of the front and back of applicant's current driver's license, passport, or state ID card
Pre-addressed stamped return envelope
Applications should be mailed to:
Registro Demográfico
PO Box 11854
Fernández Juncos Station
San Juan, Puerto Rico 00910
If you have additional questions, call (787) 765-2929 Ext. 6131 or email regdem@salud.pr.gov .
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe