Title 33
Probate Practice and Procedure
Chapter 22
Practice in Probate Courts
R.I. Gen. Laws § 33-22-28
§ 33-22-28. Name change.
(a) In every petition for change of name in the probate court, the judge shall grant or
deny the petition without consideration of presence or absence of spousal consent.
The change of name of a person shall be granted unless such change is sought for fraudulent
purposes.
(b) A person may petition to change that person’s name in the probate court in the town
or city where the person resides.
(c) If a petitioner is indigent, or demonstrates a limited or inability to pay, the court
costs may be waived or reduced.
(d) Upon receipt of a petition to change name by an adult, the court may change the name
of that adult. The court shall not require public notice or publication before approving
the name change.
(e) The court may require a person seeking a name change to undergo a criminal history
record check.
(f) The court shall make and preserve a record of a name change.
(g) The court shall, at the request of the person or sua sponte, order the records, including
docket entries, of such name change proceedings sealed, to be opened only by order
of the court for good cause shown or at the request of the person, if the court finds
that an open record of the person’s name change would jeopardize such person’s safety
based on the totality of the circumstances.
(1) For the purpose of this section, “totality of the circumstances” shall include, but
not be limited to, a consideration of the risk of violence or discrimination against
the person, including the person’s status as transgender or as a survivor of domestic
violence.
(2) The court shall not deny such sealing request solely on the basis that the person
lacks specific instances of or a personal history of threats to their personal safety.
(h) This statute is in addition to, and not in abrogation of, the common law.
History of Section.
P.L. 1991, ch. 63, § 1; P.L. 2024, ch. 163, § 1, effective June 17, 2024; P.L. 2024,
ch. 165, § 1, effective June 17, 2024.