Skip to content
Celebrating LGBTQ+
people in Fargo-Moorhead
and beyond.
Join us
The Board of Directors and 2027 Planning Committee have open positions! Fill out our interest form to learn more.
Get Involved
October 1st, 2026
Annual Stakeholders Meeting
get involved with P r i d e
Attend an Event
Celebrate with us at Pride! From the Fargo-Moorhead Pride Parade & Festival to drag brunches and community workshops, there’s something for everyone. Join in, connect, and show your pride!
Events
Volunteer Your Time
Fargo-Moorhead Pride is 100% volunteer-powered! Help make our events a success by joining our team—whether it’s event setup, guest services, or community outreach, every role matters.
Volunteer
Support With a Donation
Your contributions fuel Fargo-Moorhead Pride’s mission. Donations help fund LGBTQ+ advocacy, community resources, and unforgettable events. Every dollar makes a difference!
Donate
View the Pride Guide PDF
Your guide to everything FM Pride
Welcome to the Fargo-Moorhead Pride Guide, your go-to resource for everything happening during Pride Week! Whether you’re attending for the first time or you’re a longtime supporter, this guide has everything you need to know.
Download the PDF or pick up a printed copy from a magazine rack in your local grocery store or convenience store.
WHAT'S INSIDE?
About FM Pride
A Letter From The Grand Marshal
2026 Sponsors
Full Schedule
FM Pride Board
Ways to Get Involved
Open Pride in the Park Map
View Interactive Map
Visit
FM Pride Store
Why Get Involved?
Whether you attend, volunteer, or sponsor, participating in Fargo-Moorhead Pride is more than just celebrating—it’s about making a meaningful impact. Here’s how you can be part of something bigger:
CELEBRATE & CONNECT
Join one of the region’s largest rural Pride celebrations and connect with a diverse, welcoming community that embraces love, identity, and inclusion.
MAKE A DIFFERENCE
Volunteering with Fargo-Moorhead Pride helps create safe, empowering spaces for LGBTQ+ individuals while directly supporting events that promote visibility, education, and acceptance.
EXPERIENCE UNFORGETTABLE MOMENTS
From the Pride Parade to community events and entertainment, Fargo-Moorhead Pride offers joyful, powerful experiences that uplift and unite people of all backgrounds.
BUILD LASTING CHANGE
Your involvement strengthens LGBTQ+ advocacy and resources in Fargo-Moorhead and beyond, helping to create a more inclusive future for all.
Make an impact.
get involved
“When most people think of Fargo, North Dakota, they probably don’t think of a town bursting at the seams with queer joy, love, and community. Thanks to Fargo-Moorhead Pride, we get the space to be just that!”
Charlie Williamson | They/Them
“To me, FM Pride is a safe space for us in the LGBTQ+ community to come together and celebrate our differences. It’s a place for us to feel free and comfortable to be ourselves.”
Kimmie | They/Them Volunteer, Fargo-Moorhead Pride
“After coming out, there were many moments of insecurity. FM Pride gave me a weekend where I felt seen, loved, and supported in all the best ways. Not only that, but it was the first time I saw my parents take an active role in attending Pride events, and that meant more to me than I ever could have imagined.”
Anonymous
“I brought my mother to the drag show that FM Pride hosted with
Plains Art Museum earlier this month. She has early onset dementia,
and socializing is hard for her as she cannot follow conversation as
easily as she used to. But we know socializing is still one of the best
things for her. The drag show was perfect-- she loved the music, the
energy, and the creative outfits. Surprisingly, SHE started a
conversation with multiple people about their creative attire! This is a
big deal for her because she's self-conscious about people judging
her in conversation. We couldn't have asked for a more kind,
accepting place. People with dementia often get left out and socially
ostracized-- people don't know what to do with the diagnosis. The
queer community doesn't ostracize her, and I am so grateful that we
have FM Pride, where I know she will continue to be accepted for
who she is. THANK YOU for being here.”
Megan Even | She/Her
More pride stories
Ready to Take Action?
There are many ways to support Fargo-Moorhead Pride. Get involved today and make a difference in the LGBTQ+ community.
Make a Donation
Become a volunteer
sponsor an event
attend an event
Stay Connected with
Fargo-Moorhead Pride
Get our emails to stay in the know.
Subscribe
Please do not fill in this field.
By clicking Subscribe, you agree to our Terms and Conditions.