Ruth Carter | Carter Law Firm
Lawyer. Author. Speaker.
About
Practice Areas
Speaking
Upcoming Speaking Engagements
Past Speaking Engagements
Blog
Books
The Legal Side of Blogging: How Not to get Sued, Fired, Arrested or Killed
Flash Mob Law: The Legal Side of Planning and Participating in Pillow Fights, No Pants Rides, and Other Shenanigans
The Legal Side of Blogging for Lawyers
Videos
Press
In The News
Guest Posts
Biography
Subscribe
Contact
How to Legally Change Your Gender in Arizona
January 10, 2019 by Ruth Carter 1 Comment
2016.06.17 Baltimore Pride, Baltimore, MD USA 6761 by Ted Eytan from Flickr (Creative Commons License)
This information
applies to individuals who are female-to-male (FTM) and male-to-female (MTF)
transgender. It does not apply to people who are non-binary.
Legally changing your gender on your records in Arizona is a
straightforward process. Unlike legally
changing your name , you are not required to go to court.
Physician’s Letter
To legally change your gender, you need a letter from a
physician. It must be of their office letterhead and include that you are “irrevocably
committed” to changing your gender and that you have received “appropriate
clinical treatment.” A lawyer who assists people with legal gender changes
likely has a template letter you can use.
Please note: this letter must come from a licensed
physician. Getting a letter from a physician’s assistant, nurse, therapist, or social
worker will not work.
Update Your Social
Security Records
Once you get the letter from your physician, take it (along with
the court order from your name change if you’re doing that too) to your local
Social Security Office. You’ll need to complete Form SS-5 , which you can get in advance.
You’ll also need to bring your current driver’s license or ID card. Mark the gender
you’re transitioning to on the form. (Your social security card doesn’t have
your gender office, but it’s part of your social security record.)
Update Your Driver’s
License
A few days after you change your social security records, go
to the MVD to update your driver’s license. (Go a real MVD, not a third-party satellite
office.) Bring your physician’s letter and current driver’s license. Tell the
clerk you’re there to update your driver’s license, and they’ll give you the
appropriate form. Mark the box for the gender you’re transitioning to. You’ll
have to take a new photo and pay
$12 to get your new license or ID card.
Update or Get a New
Passport
Arizona will not change your birth certificate to reflect
your correct gender. Since a birth certificate is required to obtain a U.S.
Passport, you can generally use your passport in situations where a birth certificate
is required. You will have to apply in person and complete Form DS-11 . Bring your
physician’s letter and your updated license or ID with you.
Keep the original physician’s letter to present at each
office and in case you need it to change any additional records with your
correct gender.
You can legally change your name and gender at the same time by obtaining a physician’s letter and going through the process to legally change your name through the court prior to updating your social security record, driver’s license, and other documents and records. If you need to legally change your name and gender, contact a lawyer to assist you with this process.
If you liked this post and want to know more about my work, please subscribe to the Carter Law Firm newsletter . I share behind-the-scenes information and readers get exclusive access to me.
Filed Under: LGBTQ Tagged With: Arizona attorney , Arizona gender change , Carter Law Firm , female-to-male , FTM , legally change gender , LGBT law , LGBTQ , male-to-female , MTF , Phoenix lawyer , Ruth Carter , sex change , transgender , transsexual
Search this website
Disclaimer
This website should only be used for informational purposes. It does not constitute legal advice, and it does not create an attorney-client relationship with anyone. If you need legal advice, please consult an attorney in your community.
Contact Us
602-631-9100
Ruth@CarterLawAZ.com
1938 East Osborn Road
Phoenix, AZ 85016
Disclaimer
This website should only be used for informational purposes. It does not constitute legal advice, and it does not create an attorney-client relationship with anyone. If you need legal advice, please consult an attorney in your community.
Notice
This website has a terms of service .
Return to top of page
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settings ACCEPT
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
SAVE & ACCEPT