GOVERNOR'S VETO MESSAGE
March 31, 2026
To the Honorable Members of the Assembly:
I am vetoing Assembly Bill 104 in its entirety.
The bill would prohibit, with limited exceptions,
healthcare providers from engaging in, causing the
engagement in or making referrals for certain medical
intervention practices if done for the purpose of
corresponding the minor's body to a sex that is
consistent with the minor's gender identity. In
addition, the Board of Nursing, the Medical
Examining Board and the Physician Assistant
Affiliated Credentialing Board would be required to
investigate any allegation that any person licensed or
certified by the respective boards has violated any of
the prohibitions on engaging in, causing the
engagement in or making certain referrals for the
medical intervention practices described in the bill.
My promise has always been that I will veto any
bill that makes Wisconsin a less safe, less inclusive,
and less welcoming place for LGBTQ people and kids.
It has been my honor to keep that promise over the
course of two terms as governor, and I am proud to
deliver on that promise again today.
I am vetoing this bill in its entirety because I object
to restricting medical professionals, like physicians,
from providing evidence-based and medically
appropriate care to their patients, restricting parents
from making decisions with physicians to ensure their
kids receive the healthcare they need, and preventing
patients from receiving that basic, life-saving care.
Healthcare providers should be trusted to provide
medically appropriate and accurate information,
treatment, and care for their patients without the
unnecessary political interference of politicians.
Gender-affirming care is recognized by most major
medical associations as the evidence-based treatment
for transgender and gender-nonconforming youth with
gender dysphoria. The American Medical Association,
the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American
Psychological Association and the American
Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry have all
stated that gender-affirming care saves lives.
I am vetoing this bill in its entirety because I object
to codifying discrimination into state statute and the
Wisconsin State Legislature's ongoing efforts to
perpetuate hateful and discriminatory rhetoric and
policies targeting LGBTQ Wisconsinites, including
our transgender and gender nonconforming kids.
LGBTQ kids, including transgender and gender
nonconforming kids, deserve our love, respect, and
support just like any other kid. I restate again today:
this type of legislation, and the harmful rhetoric
begotten by pursuing it, harms LGBTQ Wisconsinites'
and kids' mental health, emboldens anti-LGBTQ
harassment, bullying, and violence, and threatens the
safety and dignity of LGBTQ Wisconsinites,
especially our LGBTQ kids. I will continue to do
everything I can and use every power available to me
to defend LGBTQ Wisconsinites, protect their rights,
and keep them safe.
Finally, and importantly, I am vetoing this bill in
its entirety because it fails to comport with our
Wisconsin values. We teach our kids to treat each
other with kindness, respect, empathy, and
compassion-and we expect adults to lead by example.
LGBTQ Wisconsinites and Americans should be able
to be safe, be treated with dignity and respect, and be
welcomed and accepted for who they are without fear
of violence, harassment, or persecution. While the
federal government and other states across this country
may give way to anti-LGBTQ hate, here in Wisconsin,
we will continue to decline to do the same.
Respectfully submitted,
TONY EVERS
Governor