Advertisement
Ohio BMV abruptly creates new obstacle to change a sex marker on driver’s licenses, IDs
The new requirement was instituted to conform to Ohio and Trump-era policy &#8216;recognizing two sexes&#8217;
By Ken Schneck
&#9679;
Policy/Legislation , Transgender
&#9679;
August 19, 2026
The Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles (BMV) has confirmed that individuals now must submit an amended birth certificate issued by the Ohio Department of Health in order to change the sex marker on their driver’s license, identification card or driving record.
Previously, Ohioans were able to complete a “Declaration of Gender” form that allowed an individual “under the guidance and direction of a qualified and licensed professional, to change their gender designation.”
This new BMV policy does not affect name changes.
LGBTQ+ advocates noticed this week that the gender-change form was abruptly removed from the BMV’s website without an announcement of policy change.
Advertisement
“No notice was given,” TransOhio posted on social media on Tuesday .
The Buckeye Flame reached out to several Ohio state representatives on Tuesday, who had no knowledge of the change, including a member of the House Transportation Committee.
In an email to The Buckeye Flame on Wednesday, Lindsey Bohrer, Assistant Director of Communications for the Ohio Department of Public Safety and the BMV, confirmed the change: “The BMV has determined that [the Declaration of Gender Change form] is not compatible with Ohio Revised Code Sec. 9.05.”
This part of Ohio law is the language that states that “ it is the policy of the state of Ohio to recognize two sexes, male and female.”
This policy language was passed by the Ohio legislature in June 2025 as part of the state budget and cribs from an executive order signed by President Donald Trump on the first day of his second term. The language further states that “these sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality.”
In a press release sent on Tuesday, Equality Ohio highlighted that transgender Ohioans have used the previous form for years and that the new rules requiring a birth certificate means that individuals will have to identify a county where birth certificate gender marker corrections are issued, a practice that not every county is required to do.
TransOhio posted that Athens, Cuyahoga, Delaware, Franklin, Hamilton, Lorain, Lucas, Portage, and Summit Counties are “friendly,” meaning their probate courts are more likely to process an amended birth certificate.
Advocates denounced the BMV’s new requirement.
“Changing a policy this consequential overnight, without warning or transparency, is not an accident — it is a choice,” said Dwayne Steward, executive director of Equality Ohio. “It is a deliberate attempt at voter suppression and an intentional decision to make life harder for transgender Ohioans while hoping no one notices until it is too late. We noticed. We are paying attention. And we will not stop fighting until every Ohioan has true lived and legal equality.”
TransOhio encouraged individuals to go through one of their Ohio Name Change Legal Clinics to learn more about their options.
Equality Ohio advised that qualifying Ohioans fill out an intake form for legal advice through their Legal Clinic.
“Despite the BMV’s arbitrary and unfair changes, our commitment to serving LGBTQ+ Ohioans is unwavering,” said Kate Mozynski, Director of Legal Advocacy at Equality Ohio. “Our legal clinic is always here as a resource. We will continue to stand beside our transgender siblings and provide the advocacy and legal services they deserve, no matter what.” 🔥
Know an LGBTQ+ Ohio story we should cover? TELL US!
Submit a story idea
Submit a story!
Author
Ken Schneck
Dr. Ken Schneck (he/him) is the editor of The Buckeye Flame, Ohio’s LGBTQ+ newsroom. For this work, he was honored with the Sarah Pettit Memorial Award for National LGBTQ+ Journalist of the Year. He is the author of “ Seriously, What Am I Doing Here? The Adventures of a Wondering and Wandering Gay Jew ” and three LGBTQ+ Ohio history books . Schneck spent 25 years working in higher education, including 10 years as a dean of students and 13 years as a tenured professor of education. He is a graduate of the Executive Program in News Innovation and Leadership at the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York.
Related Articles
Meet the Florida nonprofit sending hundreds of transgender Ohioans gender-affirming supply kits
By H.L. Comeriato
&#9679;
Transgender
&#9679;
September 9, 2026
The Queer Trans Project has sent more than 500 trans Ohioans custom gender-affirming supply kits worth a total of nearly $30,000
Shannon Hardin knows being Columbus’s first Black, gay mayor in name only isn’t enough for real change
By Elizabeth Randolph-Montgomery
&#9679;
Politics
&#9679;
August 28, 2026
Hardin connected his broader campaign to the disparities many LGBTQ+ Columbus residents face as the city becomes increasingly expensive.
Everything LGBTQ+ Ohioans should know about how to vote on Election Day
By H.L. Comeriato
&#9679;
Election
&#9679;
August 27, 2026
Voting as an LGBTQ+ person can be overwhelming, so we’re breaking it down step-by-step. Here’s exactly what to expect on Election Day.
Subscribe to The Spark, our (free!) weekly digest
Sign up
You can unsubscribe from the newsletter at any time. Have a question? Contact us or review our privacy policy for more information.
Advertisement
Our Guides
Ohio LGBTQ+ Performance Opportunity Guide
10 things LGBTQ+ Ohioans should know about absentee voting
10 things LGBTQ+ Ohioans should know about in-person early voting
Ohio LGBTQ+ Nonprofit Guide
2026 LGBTQ+ Ohio Pride Guide
Latest in Policy/Legislation
Meet the Florida nonprofit sending hundreds of transgender Ohioans gender-affirming supply kits
Shannon Hardin knows being Columbus’s first Black, gay mayor in name only isn’t enough for real change
Everything LGBTQ+ Ohioans should know about how to vote on Election Day
Upcoming rallies in support of transgender civil rights pop up across Ohio
Ohio anti-LGBTQ+ hate group co-authors Trump administration ‘report’ alleging gender-affirming healthcare fraud
Ohio BMV abruptly creates new obstacle to change a sex marker on driver’s licenses, IDs
Advertisement
Amplify LGBTQ+ Ohio. Donate to The Buckeye Flame!
Help us elevate the stories of those who are systemically and politically silenced.
Support Us
Our LGBTQ+ Ohio news is never behind a paywall. Help us keep it that way with a donation to The Buckeye Flame! When you donate, you're keeping LGBTQ+ Ohioans informed about the issues that matter to us.
DONATE
Why your support matters
A note from our Editor
Subscribe to The Spark
The Spark is our FREE weekly digest with all the latest LGBTQ+ Ohio news & views delivered right to your inbox.
Subscribe Now