File for a Name Change
Fee: $148*
Items Needed:
To Do:
Certified Copy of Mississippi Birth Certificate
Application and instructions here: https://bit.ly/3OZdCbx
Contact your local Chancery Court for exact filing fee. A certified
Birth Certificate costs $17 for first copy and $6 for other copies.
Draft documents with help from the ACLU of Mississippi.
Create docs here (Step 1): https://bit.ly/ID_docs_help
File cover sheet, petition, and birth certificate and pay fee
Bring draft order and attend hearing at appointed time
and place
Receive court order
See back for more in-depth filing instructions.
1 Apply for a new Social Security Card
Fee: Free
Items Needed:
To Do:
SS-5, Application for Social Security Card
Application here: https://bit.ly/3HGLgka
Original Certified Court Order
Proof of Citizenship
Proof of Identity
Take the signed application and documents to any Social
Security Office.
Find your nearest office here: https://bit.ly/3VYDjg0
2
Apply for a new Driver’s License
Fee: $24-$47
Items Needed:
To Do:
Application for MS Driver’s License or ID
Application here: https://bit.ly/3HMLzKm
Court Order
Certified Birth Certificate
Social Security Card
Two proofs of residency
$24 for a four-year license, $47 for an eight-year license.
Submit your application and documents to the Department of
Motor Vehicles.
Find your nearest DMV here: https://bit.ly/3QG2WQZ
If you can't access a state ID with the gender marker that fits you, a
US passport allows you to self-select male (M), female (F), or
unspecified or another gender identity (X). Contact us to talk about
how we can help you to get a passport!
Social Security allows you to self-select your sex on your Social
Security Number record. No additional paperwork needed!
3 4 Register to Vote
Fee: Free
Register to vote at the local circuit clerk’s office in your county
of residence, or update your voter registration.
More information and instructions here: https://bit.ly/3iOK8T9
Note: You can apply to register to vote or update existing voter
registration on your MS Driver License Application in Step 3.
To Do:
If you have any questions or need legal help,
please contact the ACLU of Mississippi LGBTQ
Justice Project.
Last Updated October 6, 2023
The Final Step:
Who else do you need to inform that you've changed
your name? Organizations may have a form to fill
out or email process. Others may require proof.
If you are comfortable, you can send out an email to
friends and family or announce your name change
on social media. It's OK to only tell people you trust.
Notification Checklist:
Employer or school
Banks
Credit Cards
Professional Organizations
Loans
Investments
Utility Companies
Retirement Plans
Medical providers
Insurance Companies
Memberships
Clubs
Scan Here
Access other forms and resources mentioned on this
checklist. You can also access these resources by
visiting https://bit.ly/LGBTQ_JP
Questions? Contact us! LGBTQ Justice Project
ACLU of Mississippi
Phone: (601) 354-3408 Ext. 114
Email: LGBTQ@aclu-ms.org
How to File Your Adult Name
Change Case in Mississippi
Please read these carefully. If you do not follow
these instructions, your adult name change case
may not be heard in court.
If you are low-income, you may want to fill out an Affidavit for Commencement of Suit without Prepayment of Fees to proceed
“in forma pauperis” which means the filing fees and court costs are waived.
You must sign the drafted Petition to Change Name and (if low income) Affidavit for Commencement of Suit without
Prepayment of Fees in front of a notary public. Most chancery clerk offices have a notary public.
Make a copy of your birth certificate and write “Exhibit A” at the bottom of it.
Take the completed Civil Cover Sheet, Petition, Exhibit A (certified original copy of your birth certificate), Affidavit
for Commencement of Suit without Prepayment of Fees (optional), the filing fee, and a government-issued photo ID
to the Chancery Court in the county where you reside. The amount of the filing fee will depend on the county where
you are filing. Call the Chancery Clerk’s office in advance to find out the amount and accepted methods of payment.
Give the documents to the Chancery Clerk and ask them to file your Petition. Ask for two copies of the
file-stamped Petition to Change Name so you will have a case number and verification of the date of the filing.
Consider taking a photo of the case number in case you lose the paper copy.
Ask the Chancery Clerk how to schedule your name change hearing. You might be directed to another office to do
this. You will not be able to have your hearing on a weekend, legal holiday, or when the courthouse is closed.
Judges travel among courthouses in several counties, so you might have to schedule your hearing in a different
county, depending on when you want to have the hearing and where the judge assigned your case will be at that
time.
On the date of your hearing, be on time to the courthouse where the hearing is scheduled. Bring the Order to
Change Name and your copy of the Petition with the Exhibits in case the judge needs to see them. When your case
is called, respectfully address the judge as “Your Honor” and state that you are requesting a name change. Present
the judge with your Order. If you have followed all the above instructions and the judge does not sign your Order to
Change Name, ask them why your name change cannot be granted. After you leave the courtroom, you can call the
ACLU of Mississippi at 601-354-3408 to explain your situation. We may be able to help you resolve the issue or
problem.
If the judge signs your Order, go to the Chancery Clerk in the county where you filed the petition (since the
hearing might have been in a different county), and ask the clerk to file the Order. Ask for at least four certified
copies of the Order. Some counties may charge a fee for this. Many agencies will require a certified copy.
Required Documents:
How to get your name change case finalized with the Chancery Clerk’s Office in the county where you reside:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
A Cover Sheet for Civil Case Filing Form
A Petition to Change Name
Affidavit for Commencement of Suit without Prepayment of Fees (optional, only if low income)
An Order to Change Name
Government-issued photo ID and certified copy of birth certificate
Instructions and draft documents available via the QR code on the other side of this sheet or here: https://bit.ly/LGBTQ_JP
Remember, until the judge signs the Order to Change Name, you will have to use your current name on legally
binding documents.