Go to Content
Now offering menopause and perimenopause care!
Expert menopause care is available at all of our health centers with both in-person and online appointments, making it easier to get the care you need. We're here to help you manage symptoms like hot flashes, sleep issues, mood changes, and more.
LEARN MORE
Shop our new fall collection!
Made by community and supporting care across the South. Shop our online store for t-shirts, tank tops, tote bags, hats, stickers, and more.
LEARN MORE
Now offering sports physicals!
Sports physicals are now available at all of our health centers — and we’re here to make it easy.
Whether you’re gearing up for the season or checking a requirement off your list, you can count on us for quick, reliable care you trust. Open to patients ages 12 and up for a $60 fee.
LEARN MORE
Virtual care that works for you.
Chat with one of our providers from your phone, tablet, or laptop — from your couch, your bed, or wherever you’re most comfortable. No waiting rooms, no stress.
LEARN MORE
Birth control made simple.
Birth control is how you prevent pregnancy. For lots of people, it can also make their periods lighter and more regular, ease period pain like cramps, and more. Everyone’s different, and we can help you choose a method that fits your life.
LEARN MORE
Explore vasectomy care with pain-management support.
Done having kids or don't want them at all? We offer safe, simple, and highly effective vasectomy care in Asheville, Chapel Hill, and Fayetteville, NC.
LEARN MORE
Give with purpose.
When you donate, you help protect access to care, education, and reproductive freedom in our communities. You can make an even bigger impact by becoming a monthly donor or joining one of our giving societies.
LEARN MORE
Abortion Information Navigation
Click here to find out about:
Type of Abortion and Costs
Health Center Locations
Abortion Access Support
Find Abortion Care
Schedule an Appointment
Get the sexual and reproductive health care you need, whether in person or online.
SCHEDULE NOW
Our Locations
We provide trusted, affirming care across North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia, including in-person and virtual services.
SEARCH LOCATIONS
Services Provided
We’re your go-to provider for abortion care, birth control, STI testing and treatment, vasectomy care, and much more.
LEARN MORE
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all