EXECUTIVE ORDER
NUMBER ELEVEN
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT
DOVER
TO: HEADS OF ALL STATE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
RE: PROTECTING GENDER-AFFIRMING CARE IN DELAWARE
WHEREAS, Delaware's Constitution and laws are founded on the principles
of
enjoying
and defending life and liberty, as well as equality
of
rights under the law; and
WHEREAS, Delaware is home to approximately 40,000 LGBTQ+ individuals aged 13
and older, representing about 4.5 percent
of
the state's population; and
WHEREAS, an estimated 6,300 adults in Delaware identify as transgender, comprising
approximately 0.82 percent
of
the adult population; and
WHEREAS, LGBTQ+ individuals in Delaware have historically faced discrimination,
including in healthcare settings, leading to disparities in access to necessary medical services; and
WHEREAS, in Delaware, we reject discrimination in all forms, value the LGBTQ+
community, and will safeguard their rights; and
WHEREAS, gender-affirming care is recognized by the American Medical Association,
the American Academy
of
Pediatrics, the American Psychiatric Association, the Endocrine
Society, the American College
of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the World Professional
Association for Transgender Health, the American Academy
of
Family Physicians, and the
Medical Society
of
Delaware, among others, as medically necessary, evidence-based, and
lifesaving for transgender individuals; and
WHEREAS, Delaware law does not currently provide explicit legal protections to
healthcare providers offering gender-affirming care; and
WHEREAS, in 2013, Delaware's Gender Identity Nondiscrimination Act was enacted,
making gender identity a protected class and banning discrimination against a person based on
gender identity in housing, employment, public works contracting, public accommodations, and
insurance; and
WHEREAS, in 2016 and 2020, the Delaware Department of Insurance issued a bulletin
banning blanket policy exclusions for gender-affirming care and requiring that insurance
companies provide coverage for gender-affirming care on an equivalent basis with similar care
provided for other diagnoses and impose equal premiums for those seeking or receiving gender-
affirming care; and
WHEREAS, in 2016, the State Employee Benefits Committee voted to remove then-
existing exclusions for gender-affirming care and to provide coverage for gender-affirming care
under state health insurance plans; and
WHEREAS, in 2018, conversion therapy for youth was banned under Delaware law as it
has been rejected by all mainstream medical and mental health organizations and poses serious
health risks to LGBTQ+ youth; and
WHEREAS, in 2023, the Delaware Personal Data Privacy Act was enacted, and became
effective this year, which protects consumers' personal privacy data, including an individual's
status as transgender or non-binary; and
WHEREAS, it is imperative to reinforce and expand these protections to ensure that
individuals providing or seeking gender-affirming care in Delaware are not subjected to legal
liability or professional sanctions.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, MATTHEW MEYER, by virtue of the authority vested in me
as Governor of the State of Delaware, do hereby DECLARE and ORDER the following:
I. "Gender-affirming care" means any medically necessary healthcare or treatment consistent
with current clinical standards of care prescribed by a licensed healthcare provider for the
treatment of a condition related to the individual's gender identity and that is legal under
Delaware law.
2. "State agency" means any office, department, agency, board, commission or authority of
the Executive Branch of the State of Delaware under the jurisdiction of the Governor.
3. Except as required by a final and non-appealable court order issued by a Delaware or
federal court, or as required by Delaware or federal law, no state agency may provide
information including medical records, data, or billing information, or utilize state
resources, that would further a criminal or civil investigation or proceeding, or a
professional disciplinary action, that is initiated against an individual solely for engaging
in any of the following:
a. Providing, receiving, inquiring about, or responding to an inquiry regarding
gender-affirming care;
b.
Assisting with any actions pursuant to paragraph 3(a); andc.
Traveling to Delaware to provide, receive, inquire about, or respond to an inquiry
regarding gender-affirming care.
4. Except as required by a final and non-appealable court order issued by a Delaw
1are _0~
federal court, or as required by Delaware or federal law, no state ag~ncy m~y
~o~p
Y wit
a subpoena issued by another state that seeks information regardmg an 1nd1v1dual who
provides, receives, inquires about, or responds to gender-affii:rning care,
or_
traveled to
Delaware to provide, receive, or inquire about gender-affirmmg care that
1s
or
would
otherwise be lawful in Delaware.
5.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 3 and 4,
if
the individual who provided, received, inquired
about, responded to, assisted with, or traveled to Delaware for gender-affirming care, and
who is the subject
of
the criminal or civil investigation or proceeding, professional
disciplinary action, or is the individual whose information is sought via subpoena, requests
a Delaware state agency's assistance in writing, the state agency must contact the Office
of
the Governor for its written authorization before providing such assistance. Written
authorization from the Office
of
the Governor is not required where there is a final and
non-appealable court order issued by a Delaware or federal court, or when compliance is
required by Delaware or federal
law.
6. Notwithstanding paragraphs 3, 4, and 5, this Executive Order does not prohibit the sharing
of
information with the recipient
of
the gender-affirming care when the recipient provides
written consent requesting that the information be shared.
7. Pursuant to the discretion afforded in me in Delaware law as Governor
of
the State
of
Del~ware? I s?all deny any request for the extradition
of
any individual who provides,
receives, mqmres about, responds to, or assists with gender-affirming care that is or would
otherwise be lawful in Delaware and that I may deny pursuant to the law.
8. No state professi~nal regulations board may bar or discipline a healthcare professional
solely o~ the
bas~s
of_
the healt~c~re professional providing, receiving, inquiring about.
respondmg
to_
an mqmry,
o_r
assisting an individual with gender-affirming care that is or
would otherwise be lawful m Delaware.
9• Noth
~ng
~n
th~s
Execut!ve Order shall be construed to contravene any law or regulation.
Nothmg m this Executive Order shall affect or alter the existing statutory powers
of
any
state agency.
l 0. This Executive Order supersedes any contrary provision
of
any other prior Executive
Order.
.-
•)r:'f;
~
..:
~
~
\.. "-';.~,..__
• ~t-:
,--.
'~
'-'l
'!
~~
...
,,..
~
'\
..
I,
. ' .
I / ' ( I
I
I
APPROVED this 20th day
of
June, 2025.
Matthew Meyer
Governor
ATTEST:
Charuni Patibanda-Sanchez
Secretary
of
State