x Close
Hi! I'm a virtual assistant.
How can I help you?
Skip to main content
An official website of the State of Oregon
Learn
How you know »
(how to identify a Oregon.gov website)
An official website of the State of Oregon »
Translate this site into other Languages
Toggle Main Menu
Search this site
Submit
close
Required Identity Documentation
Site Navigation
Important information
Do you need a
REAL&#160;ID ?&#160;
As of May 7, 2025, anyone 18 and older boarding an airplane in the U.S. needs a&#160;REAL ID or an acceptable alternative – like a government-issued passport, passport card or military ID. Find out more about REAL&#160;ID . To switch to a REAL ID-compliant license or ID card, you need to make an appointment or visit&#160;a DMV office for standby service.
Documents accepted by DMV as proof of identity and Oregon residency may change without prior notice. Oregon DMV has the right to ask for additional proof or&#160;refuse any document.
&#160;
Proof of Identity and Date of Birth for Non-REAL ID
Acceptable proof of identity and date of birth for a driver license, permit, or identification card that is NOT REAL ID&#58;
PRIMARY&#58;&#160;
You may present one original or certified copy of the following to prove identity and date of birth. The document must contain both your name and date of birth.&#160; Photocopies are not acceptable.
​Birth certificate issued by a U.S. Territorial government, the District of Columbia, or the government of a state or political subdivision of the U.S. (Hospital-issued birth certificate, hospital registration card, or birth registration or baptismal certificate are not acceptable)
A Canadian birth certificate
U.S. Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS-240)
U.S. Government-issued Certification of Report of Birth (DS-1350 or FS-545)
Request for Verification of Birth (DD372)
U.S. Passport, not expired more than five years
U.S. Passport Card, not expired more than five years
U.S. Territory Passport, not expired more than five years
Oregon federally recognized Tribal ID Card, including&#58;
The Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon
Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians Tribal Identification Card
Confederated Tribes of Umatilla Indian Reservation
Burns Paiute Reservation
Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Indians
Official Tribal Identification Of the Klamath Tribes
Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde Oregon
Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua & Siuslaw Indians
Coquille Indian Tribe Enrollment Identification Card
Foreign Passport containing English or with English translation, not expired more than five years
Certificate of Citizenship (N560 and N561)
Certificate of Naturalization (N550, N570, and N578)
U.S. immigration or naturalization documents, not expired more than five years , including&#58;
U.S. Citizen Identification Card (I-179 and I-197)
Resident Alien Card or Permanent Resident Card (I-551)
Re-entry Permit Form (I-327)
Refugee Travel Document Form (I-571)
Employment Authorization Document (I-766)
U.S. Military documents&#58;
Military or Armed Forces ID Card
Military Common Access Card
U.S. Uniform Services ID and Privileges Card (DD1173, DD1173-1)
Selective Service Acknowledgement Letter or Selective Services Identification card
Merchant Mariner Credential or Merchant Mariner Identification Card
Oregon driver license, instruction permit, or ID card not expired more than 13&#160;years (must have a photograph)
Out-of-state, District of Columbia, U.S. Territorial government or Canadian driver license, instruction permit or ID card, not expired more than one year , must have photograph, cannot be hole-punched or marked “Not Valid as ID”
Non-immigrant visa issued by the U.S. Department of State, not expired more than five years
Temporary immigrant visa (I-551) issued by the U.S. Department of State, not expired more than five years
U.S. Department of State Form DS-232, Unrecognized Passport or Waiver Cases, with a temporary I-551 printed notation on a machine-readable immigrant visa (MRIV) with a DHS admission stamp, not expired more than five years
U.S. Department of State driver license or non-driver ID card, not expired more than five years
Oregon Concealed Weapon Permit/Concealed Handgun License, not expired more than five years
Social Security Card - an additional document containing both your name and date of birth will be required
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number issuance letter from the IRS
Mexico Voter Card
Consulate ID Card issued by Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Peru, South Korea, or Uruguay, not expired more than five years
A Certificate of Identity issued by a Foreign Consulate
Ukrainian ID Passport Card
NEXUS ID card
Global Entry card
SENTRI ID card
FAST ID card
Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC)
A letter verifying identity provided by an Oregon County Community Corrections agency, approved by Oregon DMV
A letter verifying identity provided by the U.S. Pretrial Services, approved by Oregon DMV
A letter verifying identity provided by the Oregon Youth Authority, approved by Oregon DMV
A letter verifying identity provided by the U.S. District Court Probation Office, approved by Oregon DMV
A letter verifying identity provided by the U.S. Marshal’s Office
A letter verifying identity provided by the Medford Police Department, approved by Oregon DMV
Oregon Department of Correction Release Identification Card, issued after April 30, 2005
SECONDARY&#58;&#160;
If you are unable to present one document from above you will need to present at least two documents from this list. Two documents must be from different agencies or courts.&#160; At least one of the two required documents must contain both your name and date of birth.&#160; Photocopies are not acceptable.
U.S. Military discharge papers
An Oregon student body card, issued within the last five years
U.S. or foreign certified school records
An Oregon Job Corps Identification Card
A W2 or 1099 tax form for the current tax year
A Medicare Card or Medicaid Card
A court document issued a court in the U.S. that shows the applicant is a party to the judicial proceeding and which contains court signatures and seals. Acceptable documents are&#58;
Gender, name change, or both
Adoption, guardianship, custody, or child support
Judgment of dissolution or annulment of marriage
A court document issued by a Bankruptcy court that shows the applicant is a party to a bankruptcy proceeding
U.S. government issued marriage license, domestic partnership, or Certificate of Record of Marriage
Border Crossing Cards (DSP150, I-185, I-186 and I-586)
A foreign government issued&#58;
Birth certificate
Marriage license
Driver license or ID card, not expired more than five&#160;years
Military ID card, not expired more than five&#160;years
Passport, not expired more than five&#160;years
Voter card
Social Security Card transmittal document
A benefits letter or end of year benefit statement issued by the Social Security Administration
Veterans’ Universal Access Identification Card
A letter issued by the Oregon Health Plan, dated within the last year
U.S. Tribal Identification Card
U.S. government issued ID Card containing your photograph, name and date of birth
Proof of Lawful Status for CDL and CLP, Non-Real ID and Real ID
U.S. passport or U.S. Passport card, not&#160;expired
U.S. Birth Certificate
Certificate of Naturalization (Form N-550, N-750, or N-578, issued by DHS)
Certificate of Citizenship (Form N-560 or N-561, issued by DHS)
Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS240)&#160;
U.S. Certification of Birth (DS1350 or FS240)
​ Permanent Resident Card, not expired , (Form I-551 issued by DHS or INS)
Proof of Identity and Lawful Status for REAL ID Non-Commercial Driver Licenses, Class C Instruction Permits, and Identification Cards
​U.S. passport or U.S. Passport card,
not&#160;expired
U.S. Birth Certificate
Certificate of Naturalization (Form N-550, N-750, or N-578, issued by DHS)
Certificate of Citizenship (Form N-560 or N-561, issued by DHS)
Consular Report of Birth Abroad (FS240)&#160;
U.S. Certification of Birth (DS1350 or FS240)
Permanent Resident Card,
not expired ,&#160;(Form I-551 issued by DHS or INS)
Employment Authorization Card,
not expired , (Form I-766 or Form I-688B issued by DHS)
Foreign passport,
not expired , with a U.S. visa&#160;affixed, not expired , accompanied by the approved I-94 form documenting the applicant’s most recent admittance to the United States
Foreign passport,
not expired , from Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, or Palau and a valid I-94
Foreign passport,
not expired , with a valid I-551 statement on the unexpired U.S. visa
Full Legal Name
An official government issued marriage certificate/license
A record of Domestic Partnership issued by Oregon Vital Statistics
An out-of-state government issued record of Domestic Partnership
A U.S. city, county or state court-issued divorce decree, judgment of dissolution of marriage, annulment of marriage decree, judgment of dissolution of domestic partnership, or annulment of domestic partnership
A government-issued death certificate of spouse which includes a connection to your current full legal name
An adoption decree
A court decree, order or judgment legally changing the applicant's name
Social Security Number
​​All applicants applying for a&#160; standard driver license ​, driver permit or ID card must provide a verifiable Social Security Number (SSN), if they have been assigned one.
All applicants applying for a REAL&#160;ID ​ or commercial driving privilege must provide a verifiable SSN. The SSN will be verified with the Social Security Administration and must verify using the applicant's current legal name. Applicants applying for REAL&#160;ID who are not eligible for an SSN must provide proof of ineligibility for an SSN.
Residence Address
For a non-REAL ID, bring one document that shows your name and current Oregon residential address. Photocopies or documents viewed on an electronic device are acceptable, unless otherwise noted below.&#160;&#160;
For an original REAL ID, bring two printed documents that show your name and current Oregon residential address. Each document must come from a different agency, business or institution. Photocopies or printouts of electronic documents are acceptable, unless otherwise noted below&#58;
Any document DMV accepts as proof of identity and date of birth acceptable for a non-REAL ID (must be an original or certified copy)
Any document acceptable as proof of identity and lawful status for a REAL ID&#160; ( must be an original or certified copy)
A verbal statement from any person living at the same residence address you gave to DMV. This person must be with you and show proof of residence address.
Oregon driver’s license, instruction permit or identification card, expired no more than 13 years.
Oregon vehicle title presented by the owner on record for that vehicle.&#160;
Utility hook-up order or utility statement issued by the service provider and dated within the past six months.
Any document issued by a financial institution that includes your residence address.
Any item delivered by the United States Postal Service, FedEx, or UPS sent by a verifiable business or government agency.
Any document issued by an insurance company or agent.
Any document issued by an educational institution showing enrollment for the current school year.
U.S. government-issued marriage certificate or license signed by a government official.
Rental or lease agreement that includes the original or electronic signature of the lessor or landlord.&#160;
A monthly rental receipt from a hotel, motel, inn, campground or RV park that allows persons to stay for an extended length of stay.
Loan agreement, payment booklet or voucher, or loan statement.
Paycheck or pay stub dated within the past 12 months.
W-2 or 1099 tax form for the previous tax year.
An Oregon Department of Consumer & Business Services (DCBS) issued manufactured structure ownership document
Oregon voter notification card, voter profile report or Selective Service card, dated within the past five years.
Medical records dated within the past 12 months, health benefits card or Medical Examiner’s Certificate.
Unexpired professional license issued by an agency in the U.S.
Approved letter from Oregon State Hospital, homeless shelter, transitional service provider or halfway house dated within 60 days of your application certifying your residence address.
Letter from Department of Veterans Affairs Rehabilitation Center & Clinics certifying your residence address.
Letter on company letterhead from an employer certifying that you live at a non-business address owned by the business or corporation.
Unacceptable Documents
Hospital Birth Certificate
Baptismal Certificate
Bail/Bond Card
Business Card
Check Cashing Card
&#160;
&times;
How to recognize an official Oregon website
.gov
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock icon ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website.
Only share sensitive information on official, secure websites.
Close
Hidden Submit
Your browser is out-of-date! It has known security flaws and may not display all features of this and other websites. Learn how
&times;