Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Trans Rights Are Under Attack
Advocates for Trans Equality is tracking all of the latest executive orders and the Trump Administration's ongoing attacks on the trans community. Our lawyers and policy experts are on the front lines of this fight, and we need your support.
Donate Today
FAQ: Medicaid and CHIP Coverage for Trans Youth Healthcare
Read more about the federal government's new rule regarding Medicaid and CHIP coverage for trans youth.
Read the Article
Learn How to Testify
A comprehensive guide to testifying for trans rights in front of school boards, city councils, state legislatures, and more.
Learn More
Trans Legal Survival Guide (2025 Update)
Our Trans Legal Survival Guide is available in English and Spanish. Check out the July 2025 edition of this comprehensive resource, featuring guidance on everything from housing to healthcare to employment.
Download the Guide
About us
Leveraging decades of experience on the frontlines of power, we shift government and society towards a future where we are no less than equal. A4TE was founded in 2024 as the National Center for Transgender Equality (NCTE) and Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund (TLDEF), two long-time champions for the trans community, merged together as one organization. A4TE builds on their successes to boldly imagine a world where trans people live our lives joyfully and without barriers.
Learn More
Latest News
View All
A4TE NEWS
/
August 11, 2026
Trump Medicaid Rule to Strip Federal Funding from Transition-Related Care
Today, the Trump Administration’s Centers for Medicaid & Medicare Services published a final rule to severely restrict access to transition-related care for transgender youth.
A4TE NEWS
/
June 30, 2026
A4TE Denounces Supreme Court Ruling Undermining Civil Rights Protections for Trans People
Today, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 6-3 in B.P.J. v. West Virginia and Hecox v. Little that Idaho and West Virginia may exclude transgender girls from sports teams.
A4TE NEWS
/
June 11, 2026
Advocates for Trans Equality (A4TE) Leads 60 Organizations in Urging Congress to Protect Trans Students
The letter cites research showing that LGBTQI+ students experience disproportionately high rates of harassment and discrimination in school and warns that policies targeting trans youth can exacerbate these harms.
What
We Do
Our policy experts, litigators, and community organizers work at all levels of government to ensure trans voices are not only heard, but embraced in rooms where they've long been ignored. As a trans-led nonprofit, we also help our community navigate the realities of law and policy through vital tools, knowledge, and services.
Learn more
Donate
With a record number of attacks on trans people and trans rights, now more than ever, we need to be twice as loud and twice as bold. Because we are stronger together, we need you with us in the fight for a world where trans people are no less than equal. Donate today.
Other ways to give
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe