Skip to main content
I Want to Change the Gender Marker on My ID or Birth Certificate
Topic Menu
Changing the Gender Marker on Your Michigan ID or Driver’s License
To change the gender marker on your Michigan ID or driver’s license, complete the Michigan Secretary of State Sex Designation Form . This form does not require any medical treatment or surgical history to change your gender marker. When you sign the form, you are swearing the reason you want to change the gender marker is so that your ID can accurately reflect your identity.
Once you complete the form, go to your local SOS office to submit it and pay the correction fee. You must do this in person. Be sure to bring your current ID or license with you. The fee is $9 to correct a driver's license and $10 for a state ID. Your new ID photo will be taken when you submit your form.
The SOS should send you your new ID or license within two or three weeks, but it could take up to 30 days. If you haven’t received it in over 30 days, contact the Department of State Information Center or visit your local SOS office.
Changing the Gender Marker on Your Michigan Birth Certificate
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) is the agency that processes applications to change birth certificates. To change the gender marker on your Michigan birth certificate, complete the Application to Correct or Change a Michigan Birth Record and the State of Michigan Sex Designation Form . These forms do not require any medical treatment or surgical history to change your gender marker. Include a photocopy of a form of photo identification such as a passport, driver’s license, or state identification card. The full list of documents that MDHHS accepts can be found on page two of the Application to Correct or Change a Michigan Birth Record .
You will need to pay a $50 fee by check or money order payable to the “State of Michigan.” Mail the documents and payment to the address listed at the top of the form.
It will take about six weeks for MDHHS to process the application. There is an option for faster processing that costs an extra $25. It shortens the processing time to between two and three weeks.
When MDHHS finishes processing your application, they will send you one copy of the new certificate. You can ask for more copies as part of your application. Each extra copy costs $16.
Share This
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Facebook
Share this on LinkedIn
Share this via email
Print this