Page Not Found
Contact Us
Billing &#038; Insurance
Patient Services
Locations
Join Us
For Appointments Call (619) 515-2300
We&#8217;re sorry&#8230;
The page you are looking for may have moved or doesn&#8217;t exist.
Please return to our home page or use the search bar at the top.
Select a menu item to the left or a popular service below.
Urgent Care
Insurance Enrollment
Mental Health
Primary Care
HIV & Hepatitis
Reproductive Health
Schedule an Appointment
Call (619) 515-2300
Online Care Connect
Thank you to our Spirit of the Barrio sponsors
Accredited by
Manage Consent
By clicking “Accept,” you agree to our Privacy Policy. Clicking “Accept” means you consent to the use of cookies and similar tracking technologies to collect information about how visitors use this site, to improve the overall user experience, and to share analytics data with our third-party partners.
Functional Functional Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept Reject View preferences Save preferences View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent
English
Español
العربية