Defending everyone&#039;s rights and freedoms.
Join our email list for updates.
The Latest
News & Commentary
We need to pump the brakes on the use of Flock’s mass surveillance license plate readers
Cody Schuler, advocacy manager of ACLU of North Dakota, responds to The Forum editorial "We sleep easier because Flock is watching over us."
Campaign
Get the Flock Out
ALPR companies like Flock Safety are quietly creating a nationwide mass surveillance system. These cameras are in North Dakota, tracking, logging, and sharing our movements without a warrant.
But North Dakotans are increasingly speaking up against these creepy cameras — and your community could be the next to choose privacy over mass surveillance.
Resource
North Dakota Voter Hub
Our democracy works best when all eligible voters participate and have their voices heard. Here’s everything you need to know about casting your ballot this year.
Initiative
Banned Books Club
As book challenges and classroom censorship bills spread across the country, we’re fighting back in courts, statehouses, communities, and schools and now with our book club, too.
Press Releases
Aug 7, 2026
Martha Rossiter Joins the ACLU of North Dakota as Legal Director
In this role, Rossiter will lead and expand the ACLU’s legal program to provide strategic leadership on both litigation and legal advocacy to advance civil liberties and civil rights in the the state
Jul 20, 2026
ACLU and ACLU of North Dakota File Brief in Support of Right to Protest on Public Roads
Standing Rock protesters filed suit in 2019 to challenge the closure of a road that was used as a protest site.
Apr 14, 2026
ACLU of North Dakota to Host Liberty &#038; Libations in Mandan Next Week
This community-building is an opportunity to socialize with advocates for civil rights and changemakers in North Dakota.
Issues We're Monitoring
Free Speech
Housing Justice
LGBTQ+ and Two Spirit Rights
Privacy and Technology
Voting Rights
Indigenous Justice
Immigrants&#039; Rights
View All Issues
Make an impact
Act
Today, years of hard-fought civil liberty protections are under threat.
To influence lawmakers, we need everyone to get involved.
Petition
Get the Flock Out
Sign the Petition
Don&#039;t Give DHS More Power to Spy on Us
Send message
Action {{ slotProps.activeSlide }} of
2
Stay Informed
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement .
English