Judicial Council of California, courts.ca.gov
Rev. July 1, 2026, Mandatory Form
Health & Saf. Code, §§ 103425,
103430, 103435, 103440
Petition for Recognition of Adult's Change of
Gender and Sex Identifier, Name Change,
and Issuance of New Certificates
CONFIDENTIAL NC-300
FOR COURT USE ONLY
CASE NUMBER:
ATTORNEY OR PARTY WITHOUT ATTORNEY STATE BAR NUMBER:
NAME:
FIRM NAME:
STREET ADDRESS:
CITY: STATE: ZIP CODE:
TELEPHONE NO.: FAX NO.:
EMAIL ADDRESS:
ATTORNEY FOR (name):
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF
STREET ADDRESS:
MAILING ADDRESS:
CITY AND ZIP CODE:
BRANCH NAME:
PETITION OF (name):
PETITION FOR RECOGNITION OF ADULT'S CHANGE OF GENDER AND
SEX IDENTIFIER
AND CHANGE OF NAME
AND ISSUANCE OF NEW CERTIFICATES
Before you complete this petition, read Instructions for Filing Petition for Recognition of Adult's Change of Gender and Sex Identifier,
Name Change, and Issuance of New Certificates (form NC-300-INFO).
Note: You do not need to file this petition or obtain a court order in order to obtain a new California birth certificate for you or your
child reflecting a change of your gender or a new California marriage license and certificate reflecting a change of gender. You may
use an administrative process instead; see Health and Safety Code section 103426.
1. Petitioner (current legal name): is 18 years old or older and requests an order
recognizing the change of petitioner's gender and sex identifier to
a. female.
b. male.
c. nonbinary.
2. Petitioner is a California resident or seeks a change to a California birth certificate or marriage license and certificate.
3.
(If this item is checked, indicate the request in item 4 and skip item 5.)
Petitioner has already obtained a decree of name change that petitioner wants reflected on the certificates checked in item 4.
Petitioner attaches a certified copy of the decree of name change to this petition.
4. Issuance of new California certificate
a.
and change of name.
Petitioner requests an order for the issuance of a new birth certificate for petitioner reflecting the change of gender
Petitioner requests an order for the issuance of a new birth certificate for petitioner's child reflecting petitioner's change of
gender
b.
(Attach Birth Certificate for Child of Petitioner—Attachment (form NC-311).)
and change of name.
Petitioner requests an order for the issuance of a new marriage license and certificate with a change of designation of the
person as bride, groom, or having neither box checked
c.
(Attach Marriage License and Certificate—Attachment (form NC-312).)
and change of name.
NC-300, Page 1 of 3
Petition for Recognition of Adult's Change of
Gender and Sex Identifier, Name Change,
and Issuance of New Certificates
Rev. July 1, 2026
NC-300
PETITION OF (name): CASE NUMBER:
CONFIDENTIAL
5. Petitioner applies for a decree to change their name to conform to their gender identity:
a.
(1) Current legal name (specify):
(2) Proposed legal name (specify):
and presently 18 years of age or older
(3) Born on (date of birth):
(4) Born at (place of birth):
Sex as stated on birth certificate (check one; if your birth certificate reflects a nonbinary (X) gender marker, check the box
shown on the original birth certificate for the purpose of a federal database search):
(5)
Male Female
(6) Current residence address (street):
City: State: Zip:County:
The petitioner's information is included below:
This is the right court for the petition to change name because petitioner (check (1) or (2)):b.
(1) resides in this county.
(2) does not reside in California and (check one):
(i) wants a name change on their or their child's birth certificate, which was issued in this county.
(ii) wants a name change on a marriage license, and was married in this county.
Number of pages attached (specify number):6.
All petitioners must sign all items on this page.
Petitioners requesting a change of name (item 5) must additionally sign on page 3.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the request for a change in gender and sex identifier to
(check one): is to conform my legal gender and sex identifier to my gender identity and is
not for any fraudulent purpose.
female male nonbinary
Date:
Type or Print Name of Petitioner (Use Current Legal Name) Signature of Petitioner
(Petitioner must sign this petition in the space provided below or, if additional pages are attached, at the end of the last
attachment.) I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the information in the foregoing petition is
true and correct.
Date:
Type or Print Name of Petitioner (Use Current Legal Name) Signature of Petitioner
(If petitioner is represented by an attorney, the attorney's signature follows:)
Date:
Type or Print Name of Petitioner's Attorney Signature of Attorney
NC-300, Page 2 of 3
For your protection and privacy, please press the Clear
button after you have printed the form.
Rev. July 1, 2026 Petition for Recognition of Adult's Change of
Gender and Sex Identifier, Name Change,
and Issuance of New Certificates
NC-300
PETITION OF (name): CASE NUMBER:
CONFIDENTIAL
Complete the following declaration and sign below only if requesting a change of name (item 5).
DECLARATION
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that (check one): I am not I am
under the jurisdiction of the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation (in state prison or on parole) or in county
jail and (check one): I am not I am required to register as a sex offender under Penal Code section 290.
Date:
Type or Print Name of Petitioner (Use Current Legal Name) Signature of Petitioner
NC-300, Page 3 of 3