Page 1 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
A child1 cannot file a petition to change the child’s own name. The petition must be filed by an
adult (usually a parent) on the child’s behalf, however, the judge must also consider the desires
of a child old enough to express an opinion about the proposed new name.
As with an adult name change, the judge must find that the child’s name change is not contrary
to the public interest. With a child, there is an extra requirement that both parents consent to
the name change. The judge can waive (not require) this with good cause (for example, if the
non-petitioning parent is deceased, had parental rights terminated, or is absent and cannot be
located after a diligent search). The court can also waive this requirement if the petitioner
shows proof that the non-consenting parent had notice of (knew about) the name change
petition, but chose not to participate in the case. If either parent objects to the name change
(either in writing or at the hearing), the court must also find that the name change would be in
the best interests of the child before granting the petition.
Before beginning this process, you should consider the following:
• Why do you want to change your child’s name? A name change is not an adoption. It
does not change any of the legal rights or responsibilities between a parent and a child.
It will not give any new rights to a step-parent or deny any rights to an existing parent.
The name change cannot be used to avoid debts or disrupt the bond between one
parent and the child.
• Is it worth the expense and time involved? A person can use any name for most
purposes, although the person’s legal name will need to be used for official business.
Once turning 18, the child can decide to file on the child’s own behalf, if desired.
• Do you have legal authority to ask for the name change? It is rare for the court to allow
someone other than a parent (or in some cases, a legal guardian) to ask for a name
change on behalf of a child. The court may also deny the name change if one parent
objects, regardless of which parent has legal custody.
• If all you want to do is correct a minor error on the child’s birth certificate (such as a
misspelling of the child’s first name), you can file an
Affidavit for Correction of a Record
(form VS-608) with Alaska Vital Records instead of using the court change of name
procedure.2 The VS-608 form can also be used to add a first name if none was given at
birth. The VS-608 correction procedure can be used only to make a record more
accurate and complete.3 It cannot be used to make discretionary changes in first or
middle names, or any changes in the last name.
• If you do not have the consent of both parents to this change, it may be helpful to talk
with an attorney.
1 A “child” is a person under age 18 who has not been legally emancipated.
2 This is only for birth certificates issued in Alaska. Other states may have similar procedures, but you
must contact them directly for more information.
3 Attorney General’s Opinion in file #J-66-283-80, April 15, 1980.
Page 2 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
Safety Note:
The court will normally post a public notice about a change of name request on the Alaska
Court System’s legal notice website. However, if you have personal safety concerns about this
public posting, you can ask the judge to waive (not have to do) this legal requirement. In
addition, you can ask that your case be kept confidential or that your name and the child’s
name not be published in the case listed on the court’s public index (CourtView) on the internet.
For more information, see Step 2 of these instructions or contact your local court clerk.
Step 1. Fill out the petition form and the consent form.
a.
Petition to Change Child's Name (CIV-694).
On the "AT" line at the top of the form, write the city where the court you
will be filing at is located. Leave the "CASE NO." line blank. The court clerk
will assign the number and fill this in once you file with the court.
On the "A Minor Child" line and in Section 1, write the current legal name of
the minor child. Look at the minor’s original birth certificate to make sure
that you are spelling their current legal name exactly as it appears on the
certificate. Check that any punctuation marks such as dashes and periods
are exactly the same also. You may not be able to get the minor’s
identification documents changed if the current name submitted to the court
does not exactly match existing records. If the minor does not have a middle
name, leave the line blank (do not write “N/A” or “none”).
On the "Petitioner" line, write your current legal name.
In Section 2, write the new name you want the minor to have. Make sure
that you type or write clearly and double-check the spelling.
Section 3 asks whether you want to request an amendment (change) to the
minor’s birth certificate. The judge can include an order to change the birth
certificate on the change of name judgment. If you think you may want this,
check the box. You can always change your mind and not complete the
steps to change the certificate. But if you do not ask for it now and the
judge does not order the certificate change on the initial judment, you will
have to reopen the case and ask for it with a motion, which is a more
complicated process. You don’t have to amend the minor’s birth certificate if
you don’t want to, you will still be able to use the minor’s new name on
documents such as a driver’s license and passport.
If the name on the minor’s birth certificate is different than the minor’s
current legal name, make sure to write the name exactly the same as
shown on the birth certificate in the last line of Section 3. This includes any
punctuation marks such as dashes or periods.
If the minor’s birth certificate was issued in a state other than Alaska, contact
that state’s vital records office for instructions on what the judgment needs
to include. Other states may have additional or different requirements than
Alaska. In Section 8, you can explain anything else you want the judge to
address.
Page 3 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
In Section 6, explain whether the other parent consented to the name
change. If the other parent consents, you must attach the consent form
(see paragraph b below) to the petition when you file. The other parent
does not need to attend the name change court hearing if the consent form
is properly filed.
If the other parent has died or had their parental rights terminated, check
the appropriate box. Attach the death certificate or court order terminating
parental rights.
If you do not attach the consent form or indicate that the other parent is
deceased or had their rights terminated, your case could be delayed or your
request denied unless you serve notice on the other parent. See Step 7 for
more information.
Wait to sign the form until you are in front of a notary. A court clerk can
provide this notary service for you (at no charge) when you bring the petition
to court. You must bring a photo ID with you for the notarization. If you do
not have access to a notary or court clerk, you may fill out and attach
Self
Certification (No Notary Available) (form TF-835).
b.
Parental Consent from Non-Petitioning Parent (CIV-695).
Fill out the form and have the other parent sign it in front of a notary public
or court clerk. The other parent will need to bring a photo ID for the
notarization. If the other parent refuses to sign the consent or cannot be
located, see Step 7 below.
Step 2. Safety Concerns (form CIV-709). [Optional.]
If you have concerns about the personal safety of the minor if the proposed
name change is posted publicly, you can ask the court to waive posting (that is,
not require that it be posted). Fill out
Request to Waive Posting in Child’s
Change of Name Case (form CIV-709) and attach it to your petition when you file
the case. This form also asks whether you want your case to be confidential or
sealed, and whether you want the court to use “Not Published” for your name
and/or the minor’s name on public CourtView. The form explains in more detail
what each of these requests means. Only fill out page 1; page 2 is for the
judge.
You can get this form notarized at the same time as your petition. If you do not
have access to a notary or court clerk and are attaching form TF-835 instead,
include CIV-709 on the list of documents in section 1.
The court may decide the request based only on what you wrote on the form, or
the court may schedule a hearing to decide your request. At this hearing, the
court will only decide whether or not to grant a waiver of public posting and/or
grant any requests for confidentiality. This hearing will not approve the name
change itself.
Page 4 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
If you file form CIV-709 at the same time as you open your case, then
your case will not be public when it is opened, and the clerk will not post the
proposed name change on the court’s website, until after the judge makes a
decision on your request. If the judge grants your request, the case will stay
unavailable to the public and the proposed name change will not be posted. If
the judge denies your request, the clerk will wait at least ten days before making
your case public. This is to give you time to decide whether you want to
withdraw (cancel) your petition for the name change. If you withdraw, the case
will be closed and will not be public. If you decide not to withdraw, then after
the waiting period, the court clerk will schedule a hearing on the name change,
and a notice will be posted on the website.
If you file form CIV-709 after your case is already open, then the case
will remain public until the judge makes a decision on your request. If the judge
grants the request, the court clerk will immediately remove it from public view.
If the judge denies the request, your case will proceed as usual.
Notice on Using TrueFiling
1. See if TrueFiling is available for your case type and court location at ak-courts.info/tfcourts.
2. If available, you must use TrueFiling unless you are exempt. You are exempt if one of
these applies:
• You are in a jail or correctional facility.
• You have a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
• You do not have safe access to a computer, internet, or email.
• You cannot access the help you need to use TrueFiling.
• You have a language barrier or are Limited English Proficient.
You do not need to prove you are exempt. If you are exempt and you choose not to use
TrueFiling, you must tell the court and any other parties you are exempt on your first filing with
the court. Many forms have a check box and space for you to do this already on the form. If
not, write the following statement on your form or document and sign your name after it: “I
certify that I am exempt from using TrueFiling for a reason listed in Administrative Bulletin 92.”
Step 3. File your petition in court.
For TrueFiling Users:
If you filled out your petition electronically, save it as a separate document to
your local device. If you filled out your petition in paper, scan or photograph it
(make sure it is legible) and save it in a PDF or TIFF file format.
Create a TrueFiling account (if you don’t already have one) and log in:
https://akfile.truefiling.com/login. Upload your petition and any attachments as
one “bundle.” See ak-courts.info/tfhowto for detailed instructions on using
TrueFiling.
You can pay the filing fee in TrueFiling with a debit or credit card. A window will
pop up after you select your case type with instructions for paying the fee. If
you cannot afford the fee, fill out
Request for Exemption from Payment of Fees,
form TF-920. Upload it in the bundle with your petition.
Page 5 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
For People NOT Using TrueFiling:
Make a copy of everything you plan to file in court, including any attachments.
Keep the copy for your records.
File the original petition and any attachments at the nearest court and pay the
filing fee in the amount specified in Administrative Rule 9(b). Fees are also listed
online at ak-courts.info/courtfees. If you file in person, you can pay the clerk
with most forms of payment. If you mail your petition to the court, include a
check or money order payable to “State of Alaska.”
Step 4. Order for Hearing.
The court clerk will give or mail to you an
Order for Hearing, Posting, and
Additional Service (form CIV-701). This order will tell you (1) the date of your
court hearing, (2) whether the court system will post notice, and (3) whether or
not you must make additional public posting or notify anyone else of your petition.
The hearing date must take place at least 40 days after the date of the order.
If you did not file a consent form from the other parent (or a copy of that
parent's death certificate), you will also need to get a summons from the
clerk. See Step 7 below for what to do with the summons.
Step 5. Posting Notice on Court’s Website. [Unless waived for safety concerns.]
The court will automatically post notice on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice
website for four consecutive weeks, unless the court waived this requirement in a
written order (see Step 2 for more information on waivers). After the posting, the
clerk will file
Clerk’s Certificate of Service of Posting (form TF-815) to the website.
Step 6. Additional Service. [Only if ordered by the court.]
The court may order you to do additional posting or notice. Read your order
(form CIV-701) carefully to understand what the court is requiring you to do,
including what proof you must provide that you completed it. If you do not
follow the court’s instructions, the minor’s name change may be delayed or
denied. The following paragraphs describe in detail some common orders you
may see, but you should follow the instructions on your order if they are
different than the instructions below.
a. Notice to a Person, Agency, or Other Entity.
The order may tell you to give a copy of the notice to a specific person,
agency, or entity (such as a corporation). Unless the court gives you a
specific method to do this, choose whichever method is likely to give the
person actual notice. This could be mailing or emailing it to the person’s
known work or home address, handing the person a physical copy, posting to
a social networking account, or using a process server. If the court orders
you to use a specific method, then you must use that method. Whichever
method you use, once you have completed it, fill out
Affidavit of Additional
Service (form CIV-702). The court may require you to provide a specific kind
of proof of service, which you should attach to the affidavit. File the original
affidavit (and all attachments) with the court before the court hearing, or
bring it with you to the hearing.
Page 6 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
b. Publication in a Print Newspaper.
Take the order to the listed newspaper and tell the newspaper staff that you
need to publish the "Notice of Petition to Change Name" (on page 2 of the
order) in the legal notices section of their newspaper, once each week for
four consecutive weeks before the date of the court hearing. You will have
to pay the newspaper for this service. Do not wait to do this. All four
publications of the notice must happen before the court hearing. After the
notice has been published all four times, the newspaper will give you an
"Affidavit of Publication" that will contain a copy of the published notice and
the dates when it was published. File this affidavit with the court before the
court hearing, or bring it with you to the hearing.
c. Posting to an Online Newspaper.
Make copies of the notice and post it in the places listed in the order for the
number of days stated in the order. After posting is complete, get an
affidavit of publication from the online publication’s publisher, manager,
foreman, or principal clerk, or by the certificate of the attorney for the party
at whose instance the service was made. You must also get a printed copy
of the posted notice with the name of the online publication and dates of
posting. Attach these documents to
Affidavit of Additional Service (form CIV-
702). File the original affidavit with the court before the court hearing, or
bring it with you to the hearing.
d. Posting in Public Places.
Make copies of the notice and post it in the places listed in the order for the
number of days stated in the order. After posting is completed, fill out
Affidavit of Additional Service (form CIV-702). File the original affidavit with
the court before the court hearing, or bring it with you to the hearing.
Step 7. Serve a Summons. [Only if the other parent did not consent.]
If you are the child’s parent, then you must serve (give or send) a summons to
the other parent, unless at least one of the following is true:
• The other parent signed a consent (form CIV-695) that you filed with the
court.
• The other parent is deceased, and you filed the death certificate with the
court.
• The other parent’s parental rights have been terminated, and you filed a
copy of the termination order with the court.
If you are a legal guardian or other non-parent, then you must serve the
summons on both parents if they are not covered by at least one of the bullet
points above.
You should have already received the filled-out summons when you filed your
petition, but if not, you can ask for one from the court clerk. Serve both:
•
Summons - Child's Change of Name (form CIV-697), and
• a copy of your completed
Petition to Change Child's Name (form CIV-694).
Page 7 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
You must serve all of these documents on the other parent at least 30 days
before the hearing date. You can do this either (1) by a process server, or (2)
by certified mail with restricted delivery. See
How to Serve a Summons in a Civil
Lawsuit (form CIV-106) for instructions on both these methods.
If you cannot locate the other parent, see section 3 of
How to Serve a Summons
in a Civil Lawsuit (form CIV-106) (pages 6-7) titled "Service by Posting or Other
Alternative Service." The judge may require you to do extra notice or do a
“diligent search” for the other parent (for more information, see
https://courts.alaska.gov/shc/family/shc-184.htm).
After the documents have been served, you must file proof with the court that
you did this.
● If you used a process server, the process server will give you a "Return of
Service" that lists the documents served, who they were served on, and
when they were served. File this original "Return of Service" with the court.
Make a copy for yourself.
● If you used certified mail, give the court the original green card or
electronic receipt that you got back from the Post Office, showing that the
certified mail was delivered to the other parent. You can attach the green
card or receipt to
Affidavit of Additional Service (form CIV-702). Make a copy
of the form and attachments for yourself.
Step 8. Court Hearing.
The hearing is usually short and fairly informal. The judge will first make sure
that any required notices and consents were done. Then, tell the judge why you
want to change the minor's name. If the child is old enough, the judge will ask
the minor about the name change. There is not a specific age at which this is
required under the law, therefore, it is a good idea to bring even very young
children to the hearing, in case the judge wants to hear from them. The judge
will make sure that both parents agree to the change, and that everyone
understands that the name change will not change any of the legal rights or
responsibilities of the parents.
If anyone objects to the change, the judge will let you respond to it. If the
objection is from a parent, the judge will then decide whether it is in the best
interests of the child to allow the name change in spite of the objection.
Step 9. Judgment for Change of Name.
If the judge finds that the name change is not contrary to the public interest and
that, if an objection was made, it is in the minor’s best interest, the judge will
sign a judgment allowing the minor to take the new name. However, you cannot
begin using the new name yet, because the judgment will not be effective until
the rest of these steps are completed.
Step 10. Posting Notice of Judgment. [Unless waived for safety concerns.]
The court will automatically post notice on the legal notice website for one week,
unless the court waived this requirement in a written order. After the posting,
the clerk will file
Clerk’s Certificate of Service of Posting (TF-815) to the website.
Page 8 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
Step 11. Additional Service of Judgment. [Only if ordered by the court.]
The judge may order you to do additional posting or notice. See Step 6 of these
instructions for more information on this. After you complete what the judge
ordered you to do, fill out
Affidavit of Additional Service (form CIV-702) and file
the original with the court. You must do this within 20 days of the date of the
clerk’s distribution of the judgment.
Step 12. Certificate of Name Change.
Once any requirements in Steps 10 and 11 are complete, the clerk will send you
Certificate of Name Change (form CIV-705). If the judgment does not require
additional service, then the clerk will issue this certificate automatically after the
one-week posting on the court’s website, without waiting for any proof of
posting from you.
You can begin using the minor's new name on the date stated in the
Certificate
of Name Change. This date will be at least 30 days after the judgment was
distributed. The clerk will give you two copies of the certificate. One will be a
free certified copy. If you need additional certified copies, there will be a charge
for them. See Administrative Rule 9 for current fees.
Records to Change
After changing the minor's name, there are several records you will need to change:
1. Social Security. To avoid tax problems and help assure proper employment credit, you
should notify the Social Security Administration of the name change. Toll free telephone
number: 1-800-772-1213.
2. Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV). If the minor has an Alaska driver's license or owns a
vehicle registered in Alaska, you must send written notice of the name change to the
DMV within 30 days.4 It is very important that you do this; the minor could receive
a citation and have to pay a fine, or even be charged with a crime under certain
circumstances, if you fail to do this. Contact a DMV office to find out how they want to
receive written notice. To get a new driver's license or Alaska ID Card, the minor will
need to go with you to a DMV office and present a certified copy of the
Certificate of
Name Change (form CIV-705).
3. Vital Records. If you want an amended birth certificate, contact the Vital Records office
of the state in which the minor was born to pay any required fee and complete any
further steps. You may need certified copies of the judgment (form CIV-704) and/or
certificate (form CIV-705). Alaska Vital Records can be contacted at (907) 465-3162 or
BVSSpecialServices@alaska.gov. If your judgment does not include an order to change
the birth certificate, you may need to reopen the case to ask for an order. You can do
this by filing a motion explaining to the judge what you want (you may use form TF-706
to do this).
4. Other Records. You may also need to change records at schools, banks, insurance
companies, the Alaska PFD Division, etc.
4 AS 28.05.071 & AS 28.35.135(b).
Page 9 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
Statutes and Rules
The Alaska Statutes and Alaska Court Rules about name changes for minor children are:
• Civil Rule 84, which establishes the procedure for changing names.
• Alaska Statute 09.55.010, which gives the superior court the power to hear these cases
and sets the standard the court must use in deciding whether to grant a name change.
You can find the rules and statutes at all state courts, court law libraries, and most public
libraries.
The court rules are online at www.courts.alaska.gov/rules/index.htm.
The statutes are online at https://www.akleg.gov/basis/statutes.asp.
Page 10 of 10 Civil Rule 84
CIV-693 (7/25) AS 09.55.010
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CHILD'S CHANGE OF NAME
SUPERIOR COURT FILING LOCATIONS
ANCHORAGE: 825 West 4th Avenue, Anchorage, AK 99501-2004
BETHEL: Box 130, Bethel, AK 99559-0130
CORDOVA: Box 898, Cordova, AK 99574-0898
DELTA JUNCTION: Box 401, Delta Junction, AK 99737-0401
DILLINGHAM: Box 909, Dillingham, AK 99576-0909
FAIRBANKS: 101 Lacey Street, Fairbanks, AK 99701-4765
GLENNALLEN: Box 86, Glennallen, AK 99588-0086
HOMER: 3670 Lake Street, Building A, Homer, AK 99603-7686
JUNEAU: Box 114100, Juneau, AK 99811-410
KENAI: 125 Trading Bay Drive, Suite 100, Kenai, AK 99611-7717
KETCHIKAN: 415 Main Street, Room 400, Ketchikan, AK 99901-6399
KODIAK: 204 Mission Road, Room 124, Kodiak, AK 99615-7312
KOTZEBUE: Box 317, Kotzebue, AK 99752-0317
NAKNEK: Box 229, Naknek, AK 99633-0229
NENANA: Box 449, Nenana, AK 99760-0449
NOME: Box 1110, Nome, AK 99762-1110
PALMER: 435 South Denali Street, Palmer, AK 99645-6437
PETERSBURG: Box 1009, Petersburg, AK 99833-1009
PRINCE OF WALES: Box 529, Klawock, AK 99925
SEWARD: Box 1929, Seward, AK 99664-1929
SITKA: 304 Lake Street, Room 203, Sitka, AK 99835-7759
TOK: Box 187, Tok, AK 99780-0187
UNALASKA: Box 245, Unalaska, AK 99685-0245
UTQIAĠVIK: Box 270, Utqiaġvik, AK 99723-0270
(Formerly BARROW)
VALDEZ: Box 127, Valdez, AK 99686-0127
WRANGELL: Box 869, Wrangell, AK 99929-0869
If your nearest court is not on this list, check with that court to find out if a petition for name
change can be filed there. Court contact information can be found here:
http://www.courts.alaska.gov/courtdir/index.htm.