Skip to main content
An Official West Virginia Government Website
State Agency Directory | Online Services | Phone Directory
Driver&#039;s Licenses and ID Cards
Image
Skip the Trip! Renew Your Driver's License Online Now!
Real ID Headstart: Quickly upgrade a current "Not for Federal Identification" type WV Driver's License or State ID to a Real ID.
There are TWO types of Driver's Licenses & ID Cards
You have the choice between a Not For Federal Use driver's license or ID card, or a REAL ID / For Federal Use card that contains a gold star, indicating that the card meets full federal requirements for future use at airports and other designated federal facilities and uses nationwide. Details of how Federal Government will implement this requirement have not been released.
Applicants applying for, renewing, or obtaining a duplicate driver's license or ID card are required to provide specific documents. The documents you need to bring to the DMV depends on what type of card you choose. Due to processing and shipping costs, an additional $10.00 fee is required to obtain a REAL ID / For Federal Use card.
NOTE: REAL ID / Central Issuance
In late 2020, DMV phased-in a new driver's license issuance program, in compliance with the Real ID Act of 2005. Customers renewing or applying for a drivers license or identification card credential, in the regional offices now receive a temporary card/receipt, valid for 60 days, and their permanent credential will be mailed to them as part of the central issuance requirement for REAL ID. Customers applying for duplicate credentials will also receive a temporary card and their permanent credential in the mail. All license and ID issuance is now done through the central print location, with no credentials being printed in the offices.
Central issuance involves mailing permanent license and ID cards from a secure facility. Additionally, the new program also includes a new design for licenses and IDs with several upgraded security features. These security features will reduce the risk of fraud and identity theft.
Customers that want a new driver's license are encouraged to apply online through the DMV self service portal . If you currently have an appointment for a driver's license transaction, you do not need to make a new one. The same documents are required as before — proof of identity, proof of social security number, and two proofs of physical residency.
"Not for Federal Identification" Card Requirements
"For Federal Identification" (REAL ID) Card Requirements
Acceptable Proof Documents
Sample Licenses
Procedures on Driver's Licenses
A Word about the Problem Driver Pointer System (PDPS)
Out-of-State Transfers / New Residents
Change of Address
Applicants who are Immigrants, Non-Immigrants, or Refugees
Military Renewal of Drivers License
Youth Identification Cards
Regular (non-GDL) Instruction Permit
Graduated Driver's Licensing (GDL)
License Restrictions
Carry Your License
Fraudulent Use of Driver's Licenses
Suspension or Revocation of Your License
Classifications and Endorsements of Licenses and ID Cards
Minimum Age to Obtain a Driver's License
5707 MacCorkle Avenue, SE
Charleston , WV 25304
United States
ADA Information
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Locations
Title VI
West Virginia Code
WV DOT Privacy Notices
Get in Touch
Hi there! 👋 I'm the WVDOT Public Assistant. How can I help you today?
WVDOT Public Assistant
ONLINE
Establishing Connection...
Disclaimer: The information provided is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute legal advice. The WVDOT does not assume liability for actions taken based on the Assistant's responses.
Privacy, Security and Accessibility | WV.gov | USA.gov | © 2026 State of West Virginia