Skip to main content
Help Support Colorado Name Change Project's Efforts
Donate!
Welcome to the Colorado Name Change Project! Here, you will find information and forms on how to update your name and gender marker in the State of Colorado. Our goal is to help you better understand and navigate the process of changing your name and/or your gender marker. We have automated the forms needed for an Adult and Minor Name Changes in Colorado and are working on form packages for your Gender Marker Change.
You should know, from the outset, that no attorney-client relationship is formed merely by using this site, accessing the information contained here, or using the forms provided. All information is provided as-is.
If you would like to attend one of our workshops, please check out the calendar to see if you can find one that works for your schedule.
We have several sections:
Name Changes
Adult Non-Felon Name Change | Cambio de Nombre de Adulto
Minor Non-Felon Name Change
Gender Marker Corrections
Updating Your Name/Gender Marker Steps | Pasos Después del Cambio de Nombre
Microgrant Application
Workshop Calendar
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us ! All of the staff of the Colorado Name Change Project are volunteers, so please be patient while we respond as quickly as possible. You can also follow us on Instagram and Facebook , if you like.
Please consider making a donation towards our microgrant program , which helps to make the (expensive!) name and gender marker change process more financially accessible.
We wish you the best of success in your transition!
Cheers,
The CNCP Staff
DONATE HERE!
Search for:
Archives
Meta
Log in
The Colorado Name Change Project is a 501(c)(3) organization that operates off of donations from folks just like you. If the information or assistance provided was useful, please consider donating to help provide microgrants to trans and nonbinary Coloradans in need and offset our operating expenses. All CNCP staff are volunteers and 100% of your donation will go to helping trans Coloradans with their name and gender marker corrections.
Donate now!
×
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings .
Accept
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
3rd Party Cookies
Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognizing you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie must be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. If you do not agree to this use, you should leave our website now.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
3rd Party Cookies
This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages.
Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Settings