0
RegistER NOW!
Sponsorship Opportunities
Need LEGAL HELP?
We may be able to help you with your legal matter. Please send us a message.
Anonymous
“Thank you from the bottom of my heart for your assistance. My court experience was a disorienting experience. When you were kind enough to help resolve everything, I was incredibly grateful. The work you do to make sure people feel safe, supported and accepted is invaluable. Thank you again for being there for me.”
Tyler
“I am a transgender man in Oklahoma. Joshua Payton helped me have my gender legally changed through the Oklahoma court system. I initially thought this was impossible and I am grateful he was there to help me navigate this difficult situation. He has most recently helped me by reaching out to other attorneys and putting me in contact with one for a malpractice lawsuit. I am thankful to have an LGBTQ+ accepting attorney to fall back on when I have legal questions.”
M.D., mom of transgender child
“Since the moment we have been in contact, I’ve been thankful you were sent our way. This morning, as I’m preparing for today, I had an overwhelming sense of gratitude for having you two in our corner. I sometimes wonder who is out there in the world, fighting for kids like ours. Knowing people like you two genuinely care, even when your family of four may not be directly affected by this law, leaves me in awe.”
contribute today.
Unfortunately, this is not a money-making area of the law. The market will not fix these issues on its own. Thus, the financial burden for critical resources falls on the 2SLGBTQIA+ people who are systemically financially disadvantaged. To make change, save lives, and ensure equal access to critical legal resources for the community – we need funding.
DONATE NOW
Newsletter Block
This newsletter signup form needs a storage option. Edit the block and enter a storage location via the Storage tab.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Sign Up
Thank you!
who we are
We are a legal resource center specifically devoted to the 2SLGBTQIA+ community.
We have been serving clients in the community since 2020, and now we are opening an even more comprehensive legal resource center to meet more needs and serve more people by providing crucial low-cost legal assistance.
We are the only organization in Oklahoma providing direct legal services solely to the 2SLGBTQIA+ community.
We are a safe legal resource, meeting people where they are and handling their legal issues so that people know their rights and receive the legal services they need.
what we do
We began as a clinic to help transgender and gender non-conforming Oklahomans correct their identifying documents. OELC is expanding the services provided to serve the legal needs of the broader 2SLGBTQIA+ community.
our vision
Our vision is to change the culture of Oklahoma so that all people in the 2SLGBTQIA+ community can normalize their lives as Oklahomans. We will change the legal framework which will impact the cultural framework of Oklahoma.
Our goal is to have a consistent presence in the community to fill the legal resources gap with the overall purpose of changing the hearts and minds of Oklahomans, serving people, and saving lives.