Health Care
RIPIN helps Rhode Islanders of all ages and abilities access the care they need to thrive.
Health Insurance Consumer Support
RIPIN&#8217;s Call Center can help you navigate health insurance, including resolving insurance company denials, complications with HealthSource RI and Medicaid eligibility, medical bills, and more.
We can work with you no matter what type of health coverage you have—a health plan through your employer, insurance through HealthSource RI, Medicare, or Medicaid.
And if you don&#8217;t have coverage, we may be able to help you get it!
401-270-0101
[email&#160;protected]
Learn more about the Health Care Consumer Call Center
Community Health Network
The Community Health Network provides the tools to take control of your health and manage your health conditions with guidance and support on physical activity, nutrition, and emotional well-being.
CHN classes have been proven to help people with chronic conditions such as arthritis, pre-diabetes, diabetes, asthma, heart disease, and depression. Classes are also available to support caregivers, improve balance, manage chronic pain, and help quit tobacco.
Learn more and view upcoming classes
Cedar Family Center
The RIPIN Cedar Family Center provides family-centered, intensive care management for families of children and youth with special health care needs who are covered by Medicaid.
Our peer professionals help Rhode Islanders successfully access health coverage, navigate healthcare and education systems, improve social determinants of health, and improve health outcomes. for families with children with special health care needs.
Learn more about the RIPIN Cedar Family Center
Sign Up for Email Updates
“Our experience with RIPIN has been nothing short of amazing. The staff was knowledgeable, compassionate, and very responsive. We did not know what our rights were prior to meeting with RIPIN and were able to get the information that we needed to better support our child with special needs with a positive outcome with our child's school.”
“My first experience reaching out for help. I couldn’t have asked for anything more. Just knowing that there is someone on the other end who will listen and guide you through something that you feel overwhelmed by is for me an absolute blessing. I thank everyone and truly appreciate everyone’s commitment to their job.”
View More