470-5446 (07/26) Page 1 of 4
Abstract to Change Registrant’s Legal Name on Birth Certificate
Legal Change of Name Order – Instructions and General Information
Petitioner or Petitioner’s Attorney: Complete all items in Parts 1 and 2 on the Abstract to change
Registrant’s Legal name on Birth Certificate form according to the legal change of name decree
granted in a court of competent jurisdiction. Type or print clearly. Do not use all capital letters. Proof
the abstract carefully before submitting it to the Clerk of District Court in the county of the court order
where the petitioner resides. A $15.00 fee for processing will be assessed if an error on the abstract
requires a further correction to the certificate.
Include fee payment with the report. The Clerk will forward the abstract, a certified copy of the decree,
and the fees to the state registrar of vital records.
Clerk of District Court: Complete the certification only after ensuring that the abstract is properly
completed and the appropriate fees are attached. For Iowa-born registrants only, forward the
completed abstract, a certified copy of the decree, and the fees in a pre-addressed, postage-paid
envelope with your weekly mailing to the state registrar of vital records, or by regular mail to:
Iowa HHS
Bureau of Health Statistics
Lucas State Office Bldg., 1st Floor
321 E 12th St., Des Moines, IA 50319-0075
Vital Records Fees: A $15.00 administrative processing fee is required to reflect a legal name
change on an Iowa registrant’s birth certificate. $20.00 is also required for each certified copy of
the birth certificate, unless the registrant is relinquishing a previously-issued certificate along with the
request and requesting a replacement at no charge. Any error on the new name due to an inaccurate
abstract or court order will require an additional $15.00 fee to correct the amended birth certificate.
Fees for Iowa-born registrants are payable in U.S. funds by check or money order to the Iowa
Department of Health and Human Services. Clerks shall not collect fees by cash or electronic
payment. Warrants must be drawn from either the petitioner’s or the petitioner’s attorney’s account.
Requests for certified copies submitted from any source other than the Clerk of District Court with the
abstract will require a written application that proves entitlement, notarized signature, and clear
photocopy of the applicant’s current government-issued photo identification in addition to the $20.00
certified copy fee or relinquished incorrect certificate.
Timeline. Processing the amendment request should be completed within approximately 4-6 weeks
after receipt, unless additional supporting documents are required.
Reflection of Change on Birth Certificate:
IOWA Births Only
The Bureau of Health Statistics will reflect the name change on the registrant’s current Iowa birth
certificate upon receipt of this completed abstract, a certified copy of the decree, and the appropriate
fees. Both the former name and the new name will appear on the record with a statement regarding
the court order and the date, per Iowa Code sections 144.39 and 674.9. This abstract and the court
decree become part of the record on file with the state registrar of vital records.
Requesting a legal name change follows Iowa Code chapter 674, which is not associated with a
name change acquired through marriage or a maiden name returned to through divorce.
470-5446 (07/26) Page 2 of 4
The court order must state both the former name on the birth record, as well as the new name, in
order to amend the registrant’s birth certificate.
Birth records with legal name changes pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 674 are sealed at the county
level (effective 10-1-2003). After the name change has been processed, the record is only on file and
available for issuance from the state vital records office.
Registrants born outside of Iowa:
For registrant’s born outside of Iowa, the petitioner or the petitioner’s attorney must forward a certified
copy of the court order to the proper registration authority in the registrant’s state of birth. They are
also responsible for contacting that registration district regarding any fee requirements.
Fees are not collected and legal name changes are not processed by the Iowa Bureau of Health
Statistics for registrants who were born outside of Iowa.
For more information or blank abstract forms:
For more information, contact any Clerk of District Court office or the state Bureau of Health Statistics
– refer to the address listed in the Clerk of District Court paragraph above or call the specialist at the
state vital records office who processes legal changes of names at 515-725-2566.
Forms are available for downloading/printing from the portal/webpage set up for that purpose.
470-5446 (07/26) Page 3 of 4
Bureau of Health Statistics
Abstract to Change Registrant’s Legal Name on Birth Certificate
For State Office Use Only Certificate # Date Completed
Pursuant to Iowa Code Chapter 674. Not due to, acquired through, or associated with a
marriage or divorce. Type or print legibly. Follow the instructions and fee requirements as detailed
on the instructions page.
Part 1. Information on Registrant’s Birth Record PRIOR to name change
Prior Record – Registrant’s Name
First Name Middle Name Last Name Suffix (Jr., Sr., II, III, IV)
Sex Date of Birth Month Day Year Place of Birth City County State
Mother’s Full Maiden Name
First Middle, if any Last Name (surname) Before Any Marriage
Father’s Full Name
First Middle, if any Last Name (surname) Suffix (Jr., Sr., II, III, IV)
Part 2. Information from Petitioner and/or Petitioner’s Attorney
Administrative – Registrant’s Name on Birth Certificate after Legal Change of Name Granted
First Name Middle Name Last Name Suffix (Jr., Sr., II, III, IV)
Name of Petitioner
Daytime Phone Number Email Address
Petitioner’s Address Street City State Zip Code
Attorney Handling the Case (Full Name) Attorney Phone Number
Attorney’s Address Street City State Zip Code
Send certified copy of amended birth certificate to: (Check one only if ordering a certified copy
and appropriate fees are attached)
Petitioner as listed above Attorney as listed above
470-5446 (07/26) Page 4 of 4
Part 3. Certification of Clerk of Court
Parts 1 & 2 must be completed based on the court decree and verified before the Clerk of Court may
certify this order. Attach a certified copy of the court decree granting the legal change of name as it
affects the registrant’s birth certificate.
I hereby certify that this decree of change of name was granted on the day of
, in the State of Iowa by the District Court of
Clerk of District Court’s Signature Date Signed COURT SEAL
Case #
County.