Skip to content
Complaints
Filing a complaint
The Utah Insurance Department has a staff of insurance experts available to help you understand your insurance coverage and answer your questions. If you have been unable to resolve a problem with your insurance company or agent, you may contact our staff for assistance, or file a written complaint. Most types of complaints can be filed through the Complaint Portal , including:
Health insurance (see additional information below regarding health insurance complaints)
PBM/Pharmacy
Annuities
Life insurance
Property & casualty insurance
If your complaint involves health insurance, please refer to the Health Insurance Complaints section below. Our consumer service personnel are available to assist you between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday by calling: Salt Lake City area: 801-957-9200 In-state toll-free: 1-800-439-3805.
How to file a complaint
The online process requires that you open an account. When creating your account it is important to make note of the password you select, it will be required to access the status of your complaint. Once your account has been created, you will be able to access the complaint form and submit your complaint. The purpose of a password-protected account is to provide secure transmission of the complaint and communication to and from the Insurance Department.
If you are not able to complete your complaint online, you can download a PDF form below .
Once we receive your complaint:
Your complaint will be forwarded to the party that you are complaining against for a response.
We will review the response and provide you with our findings.
The complaint process usually takes three to four weeks.
Independent Review
If you have had a claim denied by a health insurance company and have completed the appeal process outlined in your policy, you may be eligible for an independent review. Learn more about Independent Review of an Adverse Benefit Determination .
Health insurance complaints
Before submitting a complaint you will need to know some additional information. If you need to get it from your insurance company, check your insurance identification card for the company's contact information.
Are you covered under an individual plan or an employer plan?
What state is the policy written in?
If you have an employer plan, what type of policy are you covered under — fully-insured (state-regulated) or employer self-funded?
Your coverage identification card may say whether the policy is a fully-insured or an employer self-funded plan. An employer self-funded plan identification card usually has the words "administered by" along with the company, while a fully-insured plan should have the words "state regulated." Please contact us at 801-957-9280 if you need help determining the type of plan you have.
If your policy is fully-insured and the policy was issued in Utah , you can file a complaint with our office using our complaint portal .
If your policy is fully-insured and the policy was issued in a different state , you will need to file a complaint with the Department of Insurance in that state. You can find links to other states at https://content.naic.org/state_web_map.htm opens in a new tab .
If your policy is a self-funded plan , you will need to contact the US Department of Labor (DOL) for assistance with your complaint. The state does not have any authority over employer self-funded plans. The DOL can be reached at:
1-866-444-3272
https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa opens in a new tab
If your policy is a Medicare Advantage Plan you will need to contact Medicare at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Service (CMS).
1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227)
Medicare information statewide in Utah 1-877-424-4640
If your policy is a Medicaid plan you will need to contact Utah Medicaid at 1-800-662-9651 or 801-538-6155.
Self-funded health benefits . Many large employers do not purchase health insurance from an insurance company but rather the employer self-funds the health benefits provided to employees and use an insurance company or third-party administrator to handle the claims administration. In these cases, the Insurance Department does not have jurisdiction to assist you with a complaint. Learn more about Self-Funded Health Insurance Claims .
Claim handling laws and rules
Learn about Claim Settlement Practices .
File a complaint
File online
Use the "Go to complaint portal" button to visit the Insurance Department Complaint Portal to file online. The portal will help you submit your complaint.
Using the Complaint Portal is the preferred and fastest way to resolve your complaint.
Go to complaint portal
(opens in a new tab)
If you are unable to access the portal, you may download a paper form . However, the paper form must be submitted by mail, fax, or email. PLEASE NOTE : Filing a complaint using a paper form will take longer to resolve your complaint.