Tony EversOFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR
March 31, 2026
To the Honorable Members of the Senate:
I am vetoing Senate Bill 405 in its entirety.
This bill would create a civil cause of action against a healthcare provider who performs a gender
transition procedure, as defined in the bill.
My promise has always been that I will veto any bill that makes Wisconsin a less safe, less
inclusive, and less welcoming place for LGBTQ people and kids. It has been my honor to keep that
promise over the course of two terms as governor, and I am proud to deliver on that promise again
today.
I am vetoing this bill in its entirety because I object to restricting medical professionals like
physicians from providing evidence-based and medically appropriate care to their patients,
restricting parents from making decisions with physicians to ensure their kids receive the
healthcare they need, and preventing patients from receiving that basic, life-saving care.
Healthcare providers should be trusted to provide medically appropriate and accurate information,
treatment, and care for their patients without the unnecessary political interference of politicians.
Gender-affirming care is recognized by most major medical associations as the evidence-based
treatment for transgender and gender-nonconforming youth with gender dysphoria. The American
Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Psychological Association
and the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry have all stated that gender-
affirming care saves lives.
Finally, and importantly, I am vetoing this bill in its entirety because it fails to comport with our
Wisconsin values. We teach our kids to treat each other with kindness, respect, empathy, and
compassion-and we expect adults to lead by example. LGBTQ Wisconsinites and Americans
should be able to be safe, be treated with dignity and respect, and be welcomed and accepted for
who they are without fear of violence, harassment, or persecution. While the federal government
and other states across this country may give way to anti-LGBTQ hate, here in Wisconsin, we will
continue to decline to do the same.
Respectfully submitted,
Governor
Office of the Governor • 115 East Capitol, Madison, WI 53702
(608) 266 -1212 • https://evers.wi.gov