Gender Development Program
Call 202-476-5744
A Message for Existing and New Patients
In light of escalating legal and regulatory risks to Children’s National, our providers, and the families we serve, we are discontinuing the prescription of gender-affirming medications. This change went into effect on August 30, 2025.
Mental health and other support services for LGBT patients remain available. You are always welcome at Children’s National for your other medical needs.
We know this change will have a significant impact on affected patients, families and staff. Our care teams are working directly with families of current patients to support them.
If you have questions or need further assistance, please contact us directly.
Some young people feel, sense or know they are a gender different than the one they were assumed at birth. They may live and dress in ways typical of another gender (gender non-conformity), and some may experience the need to live and be affirmed as this gender in some or all settings. This can be an urgent need, or for others, there may be experimentation and exploration. There are also some young people who show gender non-conformity in their everyday behaviors, but may not yet have the self-advocacy skills to discuss their gender identity and their gender-related needs.
The Gender Development Program at Children's National recognizes that each child's gender journey is unique. Our team has been supporting the gender needs of youth and their families for the past 20 years, providing essential care at a time they need it most. Care is individualized for each patient and always involves families making decisions in coordination with a team of highly trained pediatric specialists.
Our Providers
Our pediatric specialists provide personalized care for your child’s physical, mental and emotional health needs.
Meet the Team
Contact Information
For appointments, please call 1-888-884-BEAR (2327) and for information, call 202-476-5744.
Appointments Information
Programs Related to Gender Development
We collaborate with departments throughout Children&#x27;s National to provide the best possible care to children with gender development needs.
Positive Reevaluation of Urogenital Differences (PROUD) Clinic
Caring for Gender-Diverse Youth and Their Families
Our multidisciplinary Gender Development Program team understands that the gender development of a child may be confusing to parents and families, providers and sometimes young people themselves. Parents may wonder:
How can my child's gender-related needs best be supported?
How do we navigate our child's gender diversity in everyday life (e.g., with family, in school, when moving into adulthood, etc.)?
Is my child transgender?
Will my child's gender and gender-related needs change over time?
The needs of gender-diverse youth are often complex, requiring a multidisciplinary team approach and ongoing care supports over time.
About Us
As one of the earliest founded youth gender programs, we are a multidisciplinary team of specialists who work in the assessment and broad care needs of youth on the gender spectrum and their families. We also conduct cutting-edge research to move forward our understanding of youth gender development and ways to best support gender-diverse and transgender youth. Research findings inform all of our clinical care.
We work with gender exploring, gender non-conforming, gender dysphoric, gender non-binary, transgender and gender-questioning young people, and we see children and adolescents of all ages. We also work with youth who have genetic and other conditions in which gender variation is common.
We offer:
Personalized Evaluations and Tailored Care
This includes evaluation of your child's gender development and needs in the real world. Throughout care with us, your child will receive supports tailored to their unique needs, in coordination with an existing community of professionals your child already sees to ensure continuity and consistency of care.
Comprehensive Services and Collaboration with Multiple Specialties
The program offers care based on the needs of each young person.
Evaluation and Ongoing Supports
Your child’s care will start with an initial evaluation by our team. During this two to three-hour visit, you will meet the team together with your child and also separately. The goals of these visits vary from family to family and may include:
Understanding the various aspects of your child’s gender development
Screening for any mental health concerns/risks
Support for parenting a gender diverse child
Support for families navigating issues related to siblings, friends, school, etc.
We may ask you and your child to return for periodic follow-up visits. These visits can help us make a more extended evaluation. Your team also may suggest treatments or supportive services through Children’s National or in the community such as:
Individual supports for youth and/or parents
Family-specific supports
School supports/interventions
Support groups for you and/or your child
Recognized for Excellence
Our colleagues and peers have recognized the important care our Gender Development Program provides. Our advocacy and education efforts have been honored with the following national awards recognizing our commitment to providing compassionate, patient- and family-centered care:
The Skylight Project Ma Vie En Rose Children’s Advocate Award, San Francisco, California
The D.C. Youth Pride Alliance's 10 Year Anniversary Award
The Stuart Nichols Award for outstanding achievements in gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender community mental health
Frequently Asked Questions About Our Gender Development Program
At Children’s National, we understand that families have many questions about their child’s condition and care. Review our frequently asked questions regarding the Gender Development Program to learn more.
Read our FAQs
Locations
This is a carousel. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate.
Main Hospital
111 Michigan Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20010
1-888-884-2327
Emergency Department Info
Specialty Care
Emergency Care
Montgomery County
9850 Key West Avenue Rockville, Maryland 20850
301-765-5400
301-294-0897
Specialty Care
All Gender Development Program Locations
Family Resources
Learn about the support groups we offer for parents and children, and explore our other family resources.
View family resources
Visiting Children's National
We’re here to help make your trip to Children’s National as easy as possible. Discover information about transportation and parking, visiting hours, where to stay during your visit, spending the night at the hospital and things to do in the area.
Plan Your Visit