Tennessee Code Title 68. Health, Safety and Environmental Protection § 68-3-203
Current as of January 02, 2024 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
(a) In order to protect the integrity and accuracy of vital records, a certificate or
record registered under this chapter may be amended only in accordance with this chapter
and regulations adopted by the department.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (f), a certificate or record that is amended
under this section shall be marked “amended.” The date of amendment and a summary description of the evidence submitted in support
of the amendment shall be endorsed on or made a part of the record. The department shall prescribe, by regulation, the conditions under which additions
or minor corrections may be made to certificates or records within one (1) year after
the date of the event, without the certificate or record being considered “amended.”
“Minor corrections” means amendment of obvious errors, transposition of letters in
words of common knowledge, or omissions.
(c) Upon receipt of a certified copy of a court order changing the name of a person born
in the state, and upon request of such person or such person's parents, guardian or
legal representative, the state registrar shall amend the certificate of birth to
show the new name.
(d) The sex of an individual shall not be changed on the original certificate of birth
as a result of sex change surgery.
(e) When an applicant does not submit the minimum documentation required in the regulations
for amending a vital record, or when the state registrar has reasonable cause to question
the validity or adequacy of the applicant's sworn statements or the documentary evidence,
and if the deficiencies are not corrected, the state registrar shall not amend the
vital record and shall advise the applicant of the reason for this action.
(f) In addition to other methods of amending certificates that may be provided by statute
or by duly authorized department rule, the state registrar, if presented by an applicant
with evidence that a reasonable person would conclude proves beyond a reasonable doubt
that an original entry on a certificate was factually inaccurate at the time of recordation,
shall block out the misinformation and make the necessary correction. When such an amendment is made, no record of the amendment shall appear upon the
face of the certificate; provided, that a record of all evidence submitted relative
to the amendment, along with the registrar's analysis of the evidence, shall be maintained
by the office of vital records.
(g) A certificate of birth must be amended for a person born in this state, when the
office of vital records is provided any of the following to establish parentage; provided,
that parentage is not already shown on the certificate of birth:
(1) If a form approved, as provided in § 68-3-305(b) , acknowledging the paternity of a child is signed by both biological parents of the
child and is submitted to the office of vital records at any time after the original
certificate is filed and prior to the child's nineteenth birthday, the legal surname
of the father may be entered on the certificate as that of the child, and the father's
name and other personal information may be shown on the certificate of birth in the
manner prescribed by rule. The state registrar may mark the record as amended, but not on the portion to be
disclosed pursuant to § 68-3-205 . Further, a subsequent marriage of the individuals shown on the certificate does
not require a new certificate of birth and §§ 68-3-311 and 68-3-313 do not apply;
(2) For subsequent marriage of biological parents, a certified copy of the marriage certificate
or certificate of marriage of parents, and affidavits of the mother and father acknowledging
paternity on a form provided by the state registrar to amend the certificate of birth
may be submitted to the office of vital records to add the father's name and other
personal information and the child's surname changed to the father's surname. The form must furnish information for locating the certificate of birth in the original
name and information concerning the parents to be entered on the amended certificate. If the father is deceased, then, in lieu of the father's affidavit, the state registrar
shall accept a certified copy of a parentage order, judgment, or decree in which the
court determined the deceased husband to be the father of the child or children and
had acknowledged paternity of the child or children, whether heard on an ex parte
or contested proceeding; or
(3) When parentage has been established through a court order, a certified copy of the
order and a Notification of Order of Parentage form providing information for locating
the certificate of birth in the original name must be submitted to the office of vital
records to amend the birth certificate by entering the father's name and other personal
information and amend the child's name in accordance with the order. The court order shall establish the name of the biological parent and decree the
name the child is to bear.
(h) In the event a voluntary acknowledgment of paternity is rescinded and a new father
is not named, the name and personal information of the originally named father shall
be removed by blocking, and the child's surname shall be blocked and the legal surname
of the mother at the time of the birth shall be entered as the surname of the child. In the event a voluntary acknowledgment of paternity is rescinded and a new father
is named, the changes in the birth certificate shall be made in accordance with subsection
(g).
(i) A certificate of birth in the original name upon which another person is listed as
father must not be amended unless an order from a court of competent jurisdiction
refuting such facts as set forth by regulation is furnished to the state registrar.
(j) When an order of parentage has been granted on an unborn infant, the original certificate
of birth must be prepared and filed in accordance with the laws and rules of the department,
and the certificate of birth must be amended upon receipt of the certified copy of
parentage order from the court and the notification of order of parentage.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Tennessee Code Title 68. Health, Safety and Environmental Protection § 68-3-203 - last updated January 02, 2024 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/tn/title-68-health-safety-and-environmental-protection/tn-code-sect-68-3-203/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Tennessee Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
When Campaign Donations Become Illegal
A Legal Bodyslam? Federal Judge Approves ESPN’s Motion To Intervene in Civil Suit Against WWE
760,000 ACA Enrollees Were Dropped Over ‘Fraud’ Claims. Here’s What Consumers Need to Know.
SEC Opens Door for Crypto-Style Trading of U.S. Stocks
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat