Skip to content
Please be aware that Pride Street (4th Street between S. Elgin Ave. and Lansing Ave.) will be under construction. During this time, parking near the Dennis R. Neill Equality Center will be limited. We encourage visitors to plan ahead, allow extra time for arrival, and consider alternative parking options in the surrounding area.
Homo Hotel Happy Hour | October 2nd
Grab your favorite flannel, because fall is officially here and so is our first mixer of the season! Join us Friday, October 2 from 6:00 to 8:00 PM at the Mayo Hotel, 115 W 5th St.
As always, this event is completely free to attend, so bring a friend, a partner, or just yourself. This is your open invitation, every single month.
We can't wait to catch up with you and welcome the new season together.
Independently developed and led by Homosexual Hotel Happy Hour
Homosexual Hotel Happy Hour
6th Annual Miami NEOK Pride | October 3rd
The 6th Annual Miami NEOK Pride Fest is back to Riverview Park! This year, we’ve partnered with an incredible group of local businesses, organizations, and tribal partners to make this a Pride celebration you won’t soon forget!
Independently developed and led by Miami NEOK Pride.
Miami Pride 2026
Queer Women's Collective Tulsa | October 7th
Hello gorgeous babes!! We have TWO meetups in October (twice as nice or double the trouble!!?!).
∙ First Wednesday Oct 7 at YBR & Pride Parade Saturday Oct 17 at Elote
You know we’re going home sweet home to our gal @imvalpal at Ybr Tulsa for our regular first Wednesday meetup on Oct 7! then on Saturday, Oct. 17 if you’re looking for pre-parade friendship - meet us at Elote Café & Catering around 2:30 and we will hang out before walking to watch the Tulsa Pride Parade near 6th and Boston! The parade starts at 4pm so probably get to use around 4:15 and we can wave at Libby Billings because you know she’ll be in the parade!
Reminder: Queer Women’s Collective meetups are trans and nonbinary inclusive. Allies are welcome, assholes are not.
Independently developed and led by Queer Women's Collective Tulsa.
Queer Women's Collective Tulsa
Rainbow Harvest | October 10th
Rainbow Harvest is more than fresh food; it’s about community care, connection, and making sure everyone has access to the nourishment they deserve.
In partnership with the Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma, we’re creating a welcoming and affirming space where all identities are celebrated and everyone is welcome.
Planning to receive food?
A short intake survey is required
Rainbow Harvest Survey
Best Little Rocky Whorehouse | October 10th
Celebrate the legends and their legacy as we honor Dolly Parton and Tim Curry with a Dragspectacular evening of joy and revelry. Hosted by the incomparable Karma Electric.
Come dressed in your favorite Curry or Dolly outfit and compete for prizes in our Dolly Curry Costume Contest.
Some of Tulsa's top Drag Artists will perform tracks by Dolly Parton and Tim Curry including live performances of "9 to 5" and "Jolene."
Sponsor a table $250 for 4 or get individual tickets are $15 each. This event is for ages 18 and up.
Best Little Rocky Whorehouse Picture Show
Tulsa Pride Happy Hour EBA Mixer | October 15th
Celebrate Pride with your EBA community!
Join fellow queer & allied businesses for an evening of connection, community, and a little Pride magic. Details coming soon!
Questions about the Equality Business Alliance? Contact Krista Moncado at krista.moncado@okeq.org .
Tulsa Pride Happy Hour EBA Mixer
OKEQ Board Meeting | October 15th
All Oklahomans for Equality Board Meetings are open to OKEQ members. Learn more about OKEQ and our mission: okeq.org/about-us
Community transparency matters.
Every 3rd Thursday of the month | 6:00 – 8:00 PM
OKEQ Board Meeting
McAlester Pride 2026 | October 17th
Join McAlester Pride in the Park at Rotary Park Amphitheater on Saturday, October 17th!
Independently developed and led by McAlester Rainbow Connection, DIM Drag Productions, & Pussywillow Production.
McAlester Pride 2026
Barron Ryan and Friends | October 22nd
Join us for a free concert featuring local pianist and composer, Barron Ryan. Ryan will be joined by an ensemble of string and percussion. Hear sections of Ryan’s new composition, Twinkle Twinkle, 21 , commissioned by Chamber Music Tulsa.
Doors open at 7:00 pm, concert begins at 7:30 pm.
Cash bar will be available until 5 minutes before the concert begins.
Please let us know you are planning to attend using the link below. Seating is general admission and subject to availability upon arrival.
In partnership with Chamber Music Tulsa, Twisted Arts and OKEQ
Barron Ryan & Friends
2S Stomp, Symposium, and Powwow | October 23-24th
The Two-Spirit Community Powwow is coming to the Cherokee Nation Powwow Grounds in Tahlequah on October 23 & 24, 2026.
Come dance, listen to incredible singers and drums, visit vendors, connect with community, and experience an evening centered on culture, connection, and Two-Spirit voices. Featuring an incredible Head Staff, Host Drum Southern Pride, and Emcee Coy McLemore.
Cherokee Nation Powwow Grounds
Free Admission everyone is welcome!
Bring your friends and family and come celebrate with us.
Independently developed and led by All Nations Two Spirit Society and Intercultural Partnership Council
Make Em, Laugh, Oklahoma | October 23-25th
Evening shows will happen in the Lynn Riggs Theatre at the Dennis R. Neil Equality Center, with our all-ages programming happening at the McKeon Center for Creativity. We are THRILLED to present this festival in both of our very first Third Spaces.
Make 'Em Laugh, OK is a production of Third Space Society, a Tulsa-based 501 (c) 3 nonprofit organization seeking to provide a safe, inclusive, and accessible environment for exploring the comedic arts.
While the festival is free to attend, we are paying each of our performers an honorarium. Packing this much talent into our shows is expensive, and we would be incredibly grateful for your support.
Independently developed and led by Third Space Tulsa
Make Em' Laugh, Oklahoma
Drag the Vote: Power 4 Generation | October 25th
Drag-the-Vote (DTV) is an Indigenous-led civic engagement initiative using drag, storytelling, art, and cultural expression to strengthen civic participation among Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQ+ people.
Join us for an afternoon of community, connection, and celebration featuring Indigenous drag performers, storytelling, and nonpartisan voter registration and education.
Performers: Sage Chanell, Landa Lakes, Vicki Dillard, Felimena Pussywillow, and Ivana B. Real with DJ DK on the on the 1s and 2s.
Come celebrate Native creativity and visibility while connecting with community and learning more about civic participation.
Led by Two-Spirit & Native LGBTQ+ Center for Equity, in partnership with All Nations Two Spirit Society, Rock the Native Vote and Oklahomans for Equality.
Drag the Vote: Power 4 Generations
Broadway Clubhouse - Halloween Edition | October 25th
For a fun and spooky October Broadway Clubhouse, our Halloween edition will feature songs from shows like Little Shop of Horrors , Wicked , Phantom , Rocky Horror , Into the Woods , and lots more, as well villain songs (including Disney villains) from sunnier shows. As always, it’ll be full of a wide variety of Broadway songs, old and new.
We encourage costumes! Especially coming as a character from a musical. But, as always, all are welcome.
BROADWAY CLUBHOUSE, Tulsa's award-winning monthly show tune sing-along, is the happiest spot in town, where you and a room full of old and new friends belt out great songs together. Lyrics are projected. Feel the camaraderie from the first tune to the last.
Not a singer? No problem. Not a show tune lover? That’s what jukebox musicals are for. Sing or just hang out and enjoy the merriment and surprise guests.
No cover! Bar proceeds support OKEQ. Doors open at 6pm.
Broadway Clubhouse t-shirts are now available in the OKEQ store. $15 each.
Led by Broadway Clubhouse.
Oklahomans for Equality seeks equal rights for 2SLGBTQIA+ individuals and families through intersectional advocacy, education, programs, alliances, and the operation of the Dennis R. Neill Equality Center.
Serving the community and allies since 1980, Oklahomans for Equality is home to a diverse, vibrant, and engaged community, knowledgeable staff, and dedicated volunteers.