Skip to main content
In-Person Amendment Requests at Regional Offices
Beginning Nov. 17, 2025 , the Richland County office (formally known as the State Office) will no longer process same-day amendment requests. Most in-person amendment requests submitted at regional offices , including the Richland County office, will be completed within 1–2 business days once reviewed by the amendment team in the central office. Court ordered amendments may take up to 2 weeks to allow for proper legal review and processing.
Fees - Vital Records (Birth, Death, etc)
Payment Methods
Mail Requests
Money order or cashier's check made payable to S.C. DPH
Onsite Customer Service
Money order or cashier's check made payable to S.C. DPH
Credit and debit cards
Cash (no bills larger than $50)
Records Search - $12 per Record Requested
We can search for birth, death, marriage, and divorce records. If we can locate the record you request, the search fee will pay for 1 certified copy. However, even when a record cannot be located, the search fee is nonrefundable.
Expedited Records Search - $17 per Record Requested
Effective October 1, 2023, an additional $5 expedite fee will be applied to all services with an expected turnaround time of 10 business days or less. Therefore, the cost for the initial copy and search will be $17 rather than $12. This includes on-site, online, and billable services. No expedite option is currently offered for requests sent to our office by mail.
Additional Copies - $3 per Copy
This is the fee you will be charged for additional copies of the same type of record involving the same person when ordered at the same time you make the original request.
Special Filing Fee -$15 per Record
We charge this special filing fee when a certificate is amended due to:
Amendment affidavit
Adoption
Legitimation
Paternity acknowledgment
Parentage affidavit
Court order, and
For the establishment of delayed registrations.
Fee Authorization
DPH is authorized by S.C. state statute to charge for the search of vital records and for other services, including the issuance of certified copies of birth, death, marriage, and divorce records. The fee amounts are outlined in SC Code of Regulations 60-19 Section 1300.
For more information, contact us .
Tags
vital records