Welcome to All in One Accessibility screen reader. To start the All in One Accessibility screen reader, press "Ctrl + /". This shortcut activates the screen reader to help you navigate and interact with the content.
Skip to Content
↵ ENTER
Skip to Navigation
↵ ENTER
Open Accessibility Toolbar
↵ ENTER
Skip to Footer
↵ ENTER
Accessibility
Accessibility Preferences
(⌘ + Shift + A)
US
English (USA)
Accessibility Statement
Oversize Widget
Reading Mask
High Contrast
Font Size
100%
Line Height
100%
Letter Spacing
100%
Content Scaling
100%
Readable Font
Align Right
Align Center
Align Left
Hide Images
Highlight Links
Text Magnifier
Highlight Titles
Reset
Report a Problem
Skip to main content
An official website of the CNMI Law Revision Commission
Commonwealth Code / Title 1: Government / Division 2 Executive Branch / Part 1. Organization of the Executive Branch / Chapter 12. Department of Public Health and En... / Article 6. Health and Vital Statistics Office.
§ 26018. Amendment of Vital Records.
⬇ Download PDF
Page 1 of 1
Open ↗ Download ↧
T ITLE 1: G OVERNMENT
D IVISION 2: E XECUTI VE B RANCH
§ 26018 . Amendment of Vital Records.
(a) A certificate or report registered under this Act may be amended only in
accordance with this Act and regulations adopted by the State Agency to pr o tect
the integrity and accuracy of vit al records.
(b) A certificate or report that is amended under this section shall indicate that
it has been amended, except as otherwise provided in this section or by regul a-
tion. A record shall be maintained which identifies the evidence upon which the
ame ndment was based, the date of the amendment, and the identity of the person
making the amendment. The State Agency shall prescribe by regulation the
conditions under which additions or minor corrections may be made to certif i-
cates or records within one yea r of the event without the certif i cate or record
indicating that it has been amended.
(c) Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of the CNMI Superior Court
changing the name of a person born in the CNMI and upon request of such
person or his or her p arents, guardian, or legal representative, the Reg i strar shall
amend the certificate of birth of such individual to show the new name.
(d) Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of the CNMI Superior Court
indicating the sex of an individual born in t he CNMI has been changed by
surgical procedure and whether such individual’s name has been changed, the
certificate of birth of such individual shall be amended as prescribed by regul a-
tion.
(e) When an applicant does not submit the minimum documentation r e quired
in the regulations for amending a vital record or when the Registrar has cause to
question the validity or adequacy of the applicant’s sworn statements or the
documentary evidence, and if the deficiencies are not corrected, the Registrar
shall not a mend the vital record and shall advise the applicant of the reason for
this action and shall further advise the applicant of the right of a p peal to the
CNMI Superior Court.
(f) When a certificate or report is amended under this section by the Reg i strar,
th e Registrar shall report the amendment to any other custodian of the vital
record and their record shall be amended accordingly.
Source: PL 15 - 50, § 20.