Maine Center for Disease Control & Prevention
Change the Gender Marker on Your Birth Record
Maine law allows individuals born in Maine to change the gender marker on their birth record. People 18 years of age or older may simply complete the following application: Application to Correct a Vital Record in Maine (VS-7) (PDF) , sign it with a notary, and send it with payment to:
Data, Research, and Vital Statistics - Vital Records
State House Station 11
220 Capitol Street
Augusta, ME 04333-0011
For a minor born in Maine to change their gender marker, their parent or legal guardian will need to apply on their behalf. In addition to the above, notarized Application, a Gender Marker Change Health Care Professional Declaration (PDF) will also need to be submitted.
Frequently asked questions
How do I change the sex/gender marker on my birth and/or marriage certificate? Please complete the VS-7 application to correct or amend a vital record for an individual born or married in the State of Maine. Please read the instructions carefully: all signatures must be notarized on the form.
If you are changing the gender on a marriage certificate, then your spouse must sign off in the personal affidavit section to approve of the change.
The completed application and the $60.00 fee may be mailed to the address below or an in-person appointment may be made by calling (207) 287-3181. Checks or money orders should be made out to "Treasurer, State of Maine".
Can I change my name on my birth and/or marriage certificate? Individuals may change their first and middle name to align with their gender identity if they indicate their current and new first and middle name on the VS-7 application. The only time a name can be changed administratively is for this purpose and name changes must be done at the same time as changing the sex/gender, otherwise a legal name change order must be obtained from a court of competent jurisdiction over the individual. If done in a separate application, there will be another $60 processing fee.
Will my certificate show that changes have been made? A replacement certificate will be created, and the original certificate will be sealed from public inspection and only the registrant or the registrant's legal representative will have access to the original, except by court order. The replacement certificate will contain the same information as the original except will show the new name(s) and sex/gender designation.
Can I change my minor child's name or sex/gender on their birth certificate? As with adults, these changes may be made only for purposes of aligning the birth certificate with the gender identity. Parents listed on the birth certificate (or court ordered legal guardians) must complete the VS-7 application. Legal guardians must provide a certified court order as proof of guardianship. All parents listed on the certificate must sign and have their signatures notarized. In addition to the VS-7 application, the "Declaration of Gender Transition" form must be completed by a health care provider who within the scope of their license and through a bona fide patient provider relationship, affirms that the requested gender is consistent with the minor's gender identity.
Is it possible to use a nonbinary option on my baby's certificate? At the time of birth, parents may opt to have a nonbinary designation on the birth certificate. Both parents, if applicable, must show consent by signing the parent's worksheet. An X will display on the birth certificate.
If my baby has a nonbinary designation on their birth certificate, can I change it later to the biological sex? Yes, it can be changed by completing the VS-7 application and the "Declaration of Gender Transition" form (see “Can I change my minor child’s name or sex/gender on their birth certificate” above) and paying the required fee at the time the request is made.
Can I complete the application at the State of Maine's Vital Records office? Yes, if an appointment has been made. Please call the office at (207) 287-3181 to schedule an appointment.
Can I change my mind after a change has been made? Consistent with all other types of amendments, once an amendment is made to an item on a vital certificate a court order is required for any subsequent change to the same item.
For questions or more information, call or email us:
Division of Data, Research, and Vital Statistics
220 Capitol Street
11 State House Station
Augusta, Maine 04333-0011
Telephone: (207) 287-1919
Toll Free: 1-888-664-9491
VitalRecords.DHHS@maine.gov