Florida Name Change
Home
Step 1 - Petition
Step 2 - Social Security
Step 3 - Driver License
Step 4 - Passport
Step 5 - Birth Certificate
Get fingerprints taken
&#8203; Follow the steps below and then click Continue at the bottom of the page
Before the court will hear your name change petition, you must have your fingerprints submitted for a state and national criminal history records check.
Have your fingerprints taken and submitted through one of the Livescan Device Vendors and Service Providers that are compliant with both FDLE and FBI regulations and standards. Download the file to see a list of vendors.
A few tips for the fingerprinting process: You must bring a picture ID - a Florida Driver's License is preferred.
Very important - Provide the Originating Agency Identification (ORI) Number - FL923990Z (the "0" before the "Z" is a zero) to the fingerprinting agency. This will insure that the FDLE returns the report to the Orange County Clerk of the Circuit Court & Comptroller (Clerk) for use in your name change case.
Be prepared to pay fees: $24.00 for the state portion
$16.50 for the national portion
There may be other fees from the vendor
&#8203;A Transaction Control Number (TCN) will be issued upon getting your fingerprints done. KEEP this number for your records; it will likely be needed to make an online payment for the background check.
The results of the background check will be sent directly to the Orange County Clerk of Court. &#8203;&#8203;
Why do I have to get fingerprints taken?
This is to prevent people from committing a crime and then changing their name to escape the consequences.
livescan_device_vendors_and_service_providers.pdf
File Size: 386 kb
File Type: pdf
Download File
The preview of the form below may take time to load
Refresh the page if the form does not appear
Continue
To go back to the previous page, click the back button in your browser
County Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us&#8203;
Donate
Disclaimer: This website does not constitute legal advice and is provided as-is without any warranty or guarantee. Although an attorney is not required to successfully update your name or gender marker, you may want to seek legal guidance from a licensed attorney.
Home
Step 1 - Petition
Step 2 - Social Security
Step 3 - Driver License
Step 4 - Passport
Step 5 - Birth Certificate