Skip to main content
Main Content
Electronic Filing
eFile Login
Use the eFile System to electronically file documents. You can track the status of your filings, review filings by other parties, and receive documents and notifications from the clerk's office.
You must register on the eFile website to file electronically. There is no cost to register.
Requirements for Electronic Filing
A computer with a current browser.
A current email address
Most documents must be in a pdf (portable document format) before filing
If you are an attorney, an AT Personal Identification Number
Instructions for Excused Filers
If you have been excused from the rules of electronic registration and electronic filing, you will file court forms with the clerk of court.
Court Rules
The rules in Iowa Rules of Electronic Procedure (PDF) in Chapter 16 of the Iowa Court Rules govern the electronic filing of all documents. Electronic filing is required in Iowa as provided in Iowa Rules of Electronic Procedure rule 16.304(1). You can ask for an exception from registration and electronic filing; ask the clerk of court at the courthouse for a request form.
Court Forms
PDF forms are available free of charge on the Court Forms page. You can complete court forms by hand or electronically. You must use Adobe Acrobat Reader to complete court forms electronically. Get Acrobat Reader free here .
Online interviews for several case types are available free of charge on the Interactive Court Forms page.
Civil Court Fees
Filings are subject to the appropriate filing fee . Fees can be paid online with a valid credit or debit card or in person at the courthouse.
System Unavailability
System outages are posted on the IT support site JB Connect , this website, and Twitter. When the eFile system is unavailable, please check back periodically. If you are unable to meet a deadline due to a technical difficulty, file the document using the soonest available electronic or nonelectronic means. The filing is not timely unless the court determines it to be timely. See Rule 16.309(2).
Many legal issues are time sensitive and contain strict deadlines. If you are unsure about whether deadlines apply to your legal problem, you should seek immediate legal advice from an attorney.
Help from Court Employees
Court employees cannot give legal advice. They cannot advise what case to file, what form to complete or how to complete a form. For these and similar questions, consult with an attorney. For more information, refer to the eFile Help page.
&copy; 2026 Iowa Judicial Branch. All Rights Reserved.