skip to main content
Locations
Trans Wellness Center
The Trans Wellness Center (TWC) provides comprehensive resources and services for transgender and nonbinary people under one roof.
Register Now
Hours of Operation
Our service schedule may vary based on provider availability, so please call or email with any questions. Parking is available on site, and free with validation.
3055 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 360, Los Angeles, CA 90010
323-993-2900
[email&#160;protected]
Monday—Friday, 10AM—2PM and 3—7PM
Trans Wellness Center Support Groups
Los Rayos de Esperanza
A Spanish-language support group for TGI+ community members to connect, reflect, and build community. Through creative activities and guided conversations, participants explore identity, resilience, and joy in a space rooted in care and shared experience.
Every Friday, 3–5PM
Black Trans F.A.M. (Feminine • Agender • Masculine)
A bi-weekly, community-rooted space for Black trans women, nonbinary, and intersex individuals. This group centers connection, growth, and chosen family through open conversation, skill-building, and creative activities that support healing, joy, and collective empowerment.
Every other Tuesday, 5:30–7PM
Wellness, Designed with You in Mind.
Medical & Sexual Health Services
We offer safer sex materials (condoms, lube, internal and external condoms, dental dams); PrEP/PEP education & linkage; referrals for HIV rapid testing, testing for hepatitis C, STIs, and treatment; and linkage to primary care and hormone replacement therapy via the Los Angeles LGBT Center or St. John’s Clinic. We can also assist with insurance consultation and enrollment for Medi-Cal and Covered California.
Housing Navigation & Referrals
We offer supportive housing navigation services to help clients explore options and connect with the right resources. Our services focus on referrals to trusted partner organizations.
Job Skills & Resources
We have a computer lab for word processing, resumé building, email access, and job applications—and also offer additional help with employment navigation via our Transgender Economic Empowerment Project.
Mental Health
We offer individual counseling on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Please call for appointment availability and more information: 323-993-2900.
Donations
Interested in donating clothing, makeup, personal care products, or other accepted items to our clothing closet? No appointment is needed for standard donations. Donations may be dropped off Monday–Friday from 11 a.m.–2 p.m. and 3–5 p.m. Please review the full donation guidelines before arriving.
Learn More
Funded through a $1 million annual grant from the L.A. County Department of Public Health, the Trans Wellness Center (TWC) was formed through a unique partnership of six local community organizations: APAIT (Access to Prevention, Advocacy, Intervention, and Treatment); Bienestar; Children’s Hospital of Los Angeles; Friends Community Center; Translatin@ Coalition; and the Los Angeles LGBT Center.
Today, the Trans Wellness Center is operated by the Los Angeles LGBT Center, offering wraparound services for the TGNBI+ community.
Register Today
Established in 2018, the Trans Wellness Center provides a safe, friendly, and non-judgmental space where TGNBI+ individuals can find a wide range of vital services under one roof created by—and for—the community.
Register for care today at the link below, or contact us at 323-993-2900 or [email&#160;protected] for more information.
Sign Up for Care
Find It at TWC:
Employment Assistance
Group Therapy
Gender Affirming Care
Transgender Services
Action Name