Skip to main content
opens in new tab or window
Scheduled Maintenance
The Probate Court website and e-Filing system are scheduled for maintenance on Saturday, September 26, 2026 from 8:00 AM until 8:00 PM. These applications will not be available during this time.
Name Change
Name Change Forms
e-Filing System Information
Name change and name conformity applications must be submitted through the Court's e-filing system . When e-filing, applications must be filed under "petition."
If you have been a Franklin County resident for the past 60 days you may apply for an adult name change for yourself, or a minor name change for your minor child.
All applications must be notarized. The Court cannot notarize documents for you. If a signer is physically located in Ohio and uses an online notary, the notary must be licensed in Ohio and located within the state during the notarization.
If a minor is involved; a certified copy of the child's birth certificate is required in all cases.
Many applications will not require a hearing, but those that do will be scheduled remotely via Zoom.
If a hearing is scheduled, applicants must appear with picture identification.
Many applications do not require publication. If publication is required, the court will publish the application in a local newspaper of general circulation 30 days prior to the hearing and the applicant is required to pay the publication fee.
Confidential name changes cannot be e-filed.
For an adult name change the Court will check the public records to see if the applicant has a criminal record.
Publications
Publication Costs (if required) : Starts at $72.00
Please refer to the Publication Costs and Procedures Order (PDF, 225KB) for information on how to successfully serve notice via this method.
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I apply for a minor name change?
The applicant for the name change of a minor must obtain the consent of the minor's parents. If either parent does not consent then a hearing is required. Notice of the hearing must be given to the non-consenting parent(s). Notice is usually given by Certified U.S. Mail, and the green return card is filed with the Court. Consent must be obtained or notice given to anyone who could be considered a parent of the child.
I just got married, how do I change my name?
You do not need to apply for a legal name change if you were just married. The Certified Abstract of Marriage (green paper) obtained form the Marriage Department, can be used to legally change your last name if you wish. We recommend you obtain at least five copies of the document for the BMV, Social Security Administration, banks, employers, etc.
What is the hearing process?
Approximately 45 days after the Application For Name Change has been filed with the Court, a hearing before a Court magistrate may be held. At this time, hearings are conducted via Zoom.
The magistrate will review submitted documents and hear testimony to determine if:
all of the statutory requirements have been met
there is reasonable and proper cause to grant the requested name change
whether both parents have consented to the name change for minors
whether the name change is in the best interest of the child for minors
The consent of both parents is not always necessary for the approval of a name change for a minor. A magistrate may decide, after reviewing all of the facts, that the name change is in the minor's best interest and it is reasonable and proper to change the minor's name.
If the application is approved, the Court will provide the applicant with4 certified copies of the Journal Entry Changing Name. If there has been a hearing, the applicant will receive these in the mail after a decisions has been issued.
What do I do after my name is changed?
Make a list of all agencies, organizations, and institutions that should be informed of the name change. These may include:
financial institutions and creditors
employers and schools
social service agencies
the BMV and Social Security Administration
other government offices
Making a list then notifying everyone on the list helps insure that everyone is informed of the name change. If the approved name change is substantially different from the name that is on the applicant's birth certificate or is for a minor, notice should be given to the Ohio Department of Health, Vital Statistics Division or the equivalent agency in the state where the person was born. The Name Change Entry does not change an Ohio birth certificate, but appends to it and becomes a part of the person's birth records if they were born in Ohio.
Contact Us
Phone
(614) 525-5362
Location
373 South High Street, 22nd Floor
Columbus, Ohio
43215
View Map
Resources
e-Filing System - How to Request a Pro Se (non-attorney) Account (PDF, 726KB)
e-Filing Instructions for Name Change (PDF, 2MB)
Fees
Name Change Application:
Starts at $128.00
All credit/debit transactions that take place in Probate Court or that are completed through E-Filing are subject to a financial institution transaction fee that is non-refundable. Visit our Court Costs page for more details.
Legal Practice in the Probate Court
Legal practice in the Probate Court is restricted by law to attorneys who are licensed by the Supreme Court of Ohio. Due to the complexity of the law and desire to avoid costly errors, most individuals who have filings before the Court are represented by an attorney. Court employees are prohibited by statute from practicing law and cannot give legal advice.
Additional information about getting help with limited legal services is available at The Supreme Court of Ohio Limited Scope Representation .
Back to top