Home
Contact
FAQ
FAQ
FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions
How long is a medical form valid?
A completed medical form is valid for one (1) year.
How long is a learner’s permit valid?
A learner’s permit is valid for six (6) months.
What documents are generally required to title and register a vehicle?
You will generally need:
Original title
Valid insurance
Valid identification
Proof of address
Completed title application
Supporting shipping documents, if the vehicle was imported
Vehicle inspection, when applicable
Proof of payment of the Highway User Tax, if the vehicle was imported
Can I register a vehicle that has a lien?
Yes, unless prohibited by a court order or the lienholder.
Can I ship a vehicle with a lien into the Virgin Islands?
Yes. However, you must provide a letter from the lienholder authorizing the shipment and titling of the vehicle in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
You must also present the original title—no exceptions—along with:
Valid insurance
Valid identification
Proof of address
Completed title application
Supporting shipping documents
Vehicle inspection
Proof of payment of the Highway User Tax
Can I renew my vehicle registration online?
Yes. All vehicle registrations can be renewed online through the BMV website. Insurance information must be submitted directly to the BMV by the insurance agency.
Do all vehicles require an inspection every year?
No. Privately owned vehicles that are up to 10 years old are exempt from inspection during certain renewal years. However, all vehicles entering the territory for the first time must be inspected.
Do I need insurance when transferring vehicle ownership?
Valid insurance in the buyer’s name is required when transferring ownership and registering the vehicle.
If you are requesting only a title, insurance is not required. However, the vehicle must be inspected, and the correct odometer mileage must be entered on the title.
Are appointments required for BMV services?
Appointments are not required for all services. They are required for:
Driver’s licenses
Identification cards
Written tests
Road tests
Disabled person placards
How do I schedule an appointment?
Visit bmv.vi.gov , locate the Schedule an Appointment Online section, and select your desired BMV office.
What should I bring to my appointment?
Bring all original supporting documents required for your transaction, including valid identification, proof of address, completed forms, and any other applicable documentation.
TOP
Secure Your Vehicle's Future with a Transfer on Death (TOD) Designation. For more info CLICK: TOD
+