Skip to main content
X
close
Find Immigration Legal Help
Federal changes to Medical Assistance (MA) in MN are coming soon. Changes based on immigration status start on October 1, 2026 . Get more info about all the changes and who is affected .
English
Worried about abuse?
X
Click here to leave this site now .
If you’re in danger, call 911 or Day One Crisis Hotline at 1-866-223-1111.
Find more information about:
Domestic Violence
Harassment
Sexual Violence
Elder Abuse
Child Abuse
Federal Changes to Medical Assistance (MA)
Cambios federales de Medicaid (Español)
Isbeddellada Federaalka ee Medicaid (Somali)
Tsoomfwv Tebchaws cov kev hloov rau Medicaid (Hmoob)
Changes are coming to Medical Assistance (MA) in Minnesota, also known as Medicaid. The first changes start in October 2026, and the rest begin in January 2027.
On Oct. 1, 2026 , federal law changes who can qualify for Medical Assistance based on immigration status. Find out more at Noncitizen adults / Minnesota Department of Human Services
Starting Jan. 1, 2027, some adults with Medical Assistance may need to meet new work reporting and community engagement requirements to get or keep coverage. Find out more at Work requirements / Minnesota Department of Human Services
Starting in 2027, some adults who get Medical Assistance will have a renewal every six months instead of once per year. Find out more at Six-month renewal / Minnesota Department of Human Services
Federal law will soon shorten how far back Medical Assistance can go to pay for services received before a person’s application month. Reduced retroactive coverage in Minnesota begins Jan. 1, 2028. Minnesota will continue three months of retroactive coverage through 2027. Find out more: Retroactive coverage / Minnesota Department of Human Services
Get more information about what the changes are and who is affected.
Legal Services Corporation
LSC's support for this website is limited to those activities that are consistent with LSC restrictions.
Back to Table of Contents
Quick Exit