Help
| Staff Login
2023 Regular Session
HB 2002 Enrolled
Lock Sponsors
Overview
At the request of:
Chief Sponsors:
Add
Remove
Regular Sponsors:
Add
Remove
Bill Title:
Relating to health; and declaring an emergency.
Catchline/Summary:
Modifies provisions relating to reproductive health rights.
Modifies provisions relating to reproductive health rights.
Modifies provisions relating to access to reproductive health care and gender-affirming treatment.
Modifies provisions relating to protections for providers of and individuals receiving reproductive and gender-affirming health care services.
Creates crime of interfering with a health care facility. Punishes by maximum of 364 days' imprisonment, $6,250 fine, or both. Creates right of action for person or health care provider aggrieved by interference with health care facility.
Makes statutory change to achieve gender neutral language with respect to unlawful employment discrimination because of sex.
Declares public policy regarding interstate actions arising out of reproductive health care and gender-affirming treatment. Prohibits public body from participating in interstate investigation or proceeding involving reproductive health care and gender-affirming treatment. Creates exceptions. Prohibits clerk of court from issuing subpoena if foreign subpoena relates to reproductive health care or gender-affirming treatment. Declares that Oregon law governs certain actions arising out of reproductive health care or gender-affirming treatment provided or received in this state.
Repeals criminal provisions relating to concealing birth. ]
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Higher Education Coordinating Commission for allocation to Office of Rural Health, for purposes of providing grants through rural qualified health center pilot project. ]
Appropriates moneys from General Fund to Oregon Health Authority for specified expenses. ]
Declares emergency, effective on passage.
Chapter Number:
Chapter 228
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal Impact Issued
Revenue Impact:
No Revenue Impact
Measure Analysis:
Staff Measure Summary / Impact Statements
Current Location:
Chapter Number Assigned
Current Committee:
Current Subcommittee:
Subsequent Referral(s):
Potential Conflicts of Interest/Vote Explanations:
Potential Conflicts of Interest/Vote Explanation Documents
×
Sponsor Change Confirmation
Yes
No
Measure History
Scheduled Events
×
Oregon Legislative Assembly - Public Testimony Registration Form
You are registering to speak about:
HB 2002
Registration Instructions / Language Access Services Information
Submit the form below to testify or comment either in person or remotely by video or phone. After completing the required fields ( * ), click the “Submit Registration to Testify” button.
Email address and phone number are required for administrative purposes and will not be posted to OLIS. Your phone number will be displayed on the livestream of the committee meeting if you testify by phone.
Registration ends 30 minutes prior to the start of the meeting. After that time, the registration system will close.
After registering and seeing a confirmation screen, you will receive an email with meeting details. If you do not receive a confirmation email, check your email spam folder.
Registration does not guarantee that you will have an opportunity to speak; the chair may determine that time for public testimony will be limited. Committee meetings are sometimes cancelled or rescheduled. You can receive email updates on selected bills or committee agendas by signing up for Capitol e-Subscribe.
If you would like to provide written testimony to the committee, see instructions to submit written testimony here.
To request spoken language interpretation, American Sign Language (ASL) interpretation, or Communication Access Realtime Translation (CART) services, please email languageaccess@oregonlegislature.gov or call 503-986-1538 at least 3 days in advance.
Para solicitar servicios de interpretación de lenguaje hablado, interpretación de lenguaje de señas americano (ASL) o traducción en tiempo real de acceso a la comunicación (CART), envíe un correo electrónico a languageaccess@oregonlegislature.gov o llame al 503-986-1538 con 3 dias de anticipación.
Select the Meeting Date:
Select...
First Name: *
Last Name: *
City of Residence: *
Phone Number: *
Location When You Testify: *
Email Address: *
Confidential - Administrative Use Only
Select...
In Person
Remotely
Will you travel more than 100 miles to this meeting to testify?
Yes
No
How do you wish to be addressed?
Organization:
Organizational Title:
Other:
*
Select...
Neutral
Oppose
Support
Cancel
×
You Have Successfully Registered to Testify
Testimony Details:
You will receive an email soon with meeting details. If you registered to testify remotely, the
email will include a link or phone number to join the committee meeting.
If you do not receive a confirmation within 24 hours, have any questions, or need to cancel your registration,
please call 1-833-588-4500 or email the committee assistant listed on the committee page on OLIS.
Committee meetings are sometimes canceled or rescheduled. If you register to testify and the meeting is
rescheduled, you will need to register for the new meeting date. To receive email updates on selected
bills or committee agendas, sign up for Capitol E-Subscribe.
Close this Window
×
HB 2002 Not Scheduled for Public Testimony
Thank you for your interest in providing public testimony on .
Either this item is not currently scheduled for a public hearing, or the deadline to register to testify
or to submit written testimony has passed.
For questions about the legislature, legislative process, or other government agencies, please email
help.leg@oregonlegislature.gov or call 1-800-332-2313.
Close this Window
×
HB 2002 Not Scheduled for Public Testimony
Thank you for your interest in providing written testimony on .
Either this item is not currently scheduled for a public hearing, or the deadline to register to testify
or to submit written testimony has passed.
For questions about the legislature, legislative process, or other government agencies, please email
help.leg@oregonlegislature.gov or call 1-800-332-2313.
Close this Window
×
Close