VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 1Application for Gender Marker Change on a NYC Birth Certificate
Application for Gender Marker Change
on a NYC Birth Certificate
Use this form to change only the gender marker or both the gender marker and name on a New York City (NYC)
birth certificate. Visit nyc.gov/vitalrecords for current processing times, order status and additional information.
(Please print clearly and fill out as much information in English as you can.
Translations of this form are available online for reference only — please fill out the English form in English.)
Who Can Apply for a Gender Marker Change?
• You must be the person named on the birth certificate and at least 18 years old, or the parent(s) or legal
guardian(s) of the person named on the birth certificate if the person is younger than 18 years old. The
person named on the birth certificate must have been born within the five boroughs of NYC (Bronx, Brooklyn,
Manhattan, Queens, Staten Island).
• This application is for people who do not identify with the sex they were assigned at birth or do not want to
conform to a specific gender identity.
• Note that if the hospital made an error with the sex listed on the birth certificate at the time of the birth, you
should not complete this form. Instead, fill out the Application for the Correction of a NYC Birth Certificate at
on.nyc.gov/birthcertcorrect.
How Do I Make a Gender Marker Change?
• Start by going to Page 2 of this form and identifying the type of gender marker change that you want to make.
• Depending on the type of gender marker change that you want to make, go to Table A or B.
• Carefully read the Table’s instructions on the types of documents you will need to submit with your application.
• Gather the required documents and include them with your application.
• Complete all the information on Pages 5 to 8.
• Make sure to sign and date Page 7 and notarize Page 8.
• You must submit a current (not expired) and signed photo identification (ID). If the applicant is younger than
18 years old and both parents’ names are on the birth certificate, both parents must sign the application and
submit photocopies of their unexpired and signed IDs. We accept copies of both applicant and parent IDs with
mailed applications. Photocopies must be clear and include the front and back of the ID. For a list of accepted
IDs, visit nyc.gov/health and search for birth and death records required documents, then see the Identity
Proof drop-down.
Documents Required
• You must send original documentation. Notarized copies, photocopies or altered documents are not accepted.
• If you are changing the name on the birth certificate, the original certified legal name change court order must
include the following: full name at birth (original name), date of birth, place of birth and certificate number. If
the court order does not have those four identifiers, submit the original name change petition to the court. If
the birth certificate amendment is for someone younger than age 18, the certified legal name change court
order must include the full name of the parent(s) on the birth certificate.
• If you would like a letter of exemplification with your amended birth certificate, select Yes in Section Three on Page 6.
• You only have to notarize one page of this application — see Page 8.
• Provide the original legal guardianship court order, if you are the legal guardian(s).
Fees: How Much Does It Cost to Make a Change?
The NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYC Health Department) charges a nonrefundable $40
application processing fee, plus $15 per copy for each new certificate. A maximum of three copies can be ordered.
Mail all required documents and payment (check or money order) to:
NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Corrections Unit • Attention: Group A
125 Worth Street • Room 144 • CN-4 • New York, NY 10013
For questions on how to complete this application, email tgnyc@health.nyc.gov.
VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 2
What would you like to request?
Identify what you need to submit based on the following Tables.
Type of Change Requested What Do I Submit?
1 I am age 18 or older and want to change both the gender marker and name on
my birth certificate. See Table A.
2 I am age 18 or older and want to change only the gender marker on my birth
certificate. See Table A.
3 I am the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of a minor child (younger than age 18)
and want to change both the gender marker and name on their birth certificate. See Table B.
4 I am the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of a minor child (younger than age 18)
and want to change only the gender marker on their birth certificate. See Table B.
If you are requesting a correction or amendment to your birth certificate that is not listed above, you must also
fill out the Application for the Correction of a NYC Birth Certificate — find the form at on.nyc.gov/birthcertcorrect.
You must mail both applications together. The $40 nonrefundable application fee is applied once and covers
the amendments submitted on one or both forms.
Note that if the hospital made an error with the sex listed on the birth certificate at the time of birth, you
should not complete this form. Instead, fill out the Application for the Correction of a NYC Birth Certificate at
on.nyc.gov/birthcertcorrect.
Application for Gender Marker Change on a NYC Birth Certificate
VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 3
Fill out Sections One, Two, Three, Four and Six
of this application — see Pages 5 to 8.
Table A. Adult Changing Gender Marker and/or Name on Their Birth Certificate
#
Put a check
mark (✔) on
the item that
applies to you.
(For your use only.) I am the I want to What do I need to do?
1 Person
listed on the
certificate and
age 18 or older
Change the
gender marker
on my birth
certificate and
legally change
my name
• Fill out Sections One, Two, Three, Four and
Six of this application — see Pages 5 to 8.
• Submit applicable fees — see Page 8.
• Sign Page 7 and notarize Page 8.
• Provide a copy of valid signed photo ID.
• Obtain a certified legal name change court order.
If you live in NYC, you must go to Civil Court and
request a legal name change. If you live outside
NYC, go to the appropriate court in your area
and request a legal name change. The certified
legal name change court order must include the
full name at birth, date of birth, place of birth and
certificate number.
• The names and date of birth on the documents
provided must match those on the birth certificate
and photo ID. If the names are different, you must
submit additional documentation showing how the
name was changed.
2 Person
listed on the
certificate and
age 18 or older
Change only
the gender
marker on my
birth certificate
•
• Submit applicable fees — see Page 8.
• Sign Page 7 and notarize Page 8.
• Provide a copy of valid photo ID.
• The names and date of birth on the documents
provided must match those on the birth certificate
and photo ID. If the names are different, you must
submit additional documentation showing how the
name was changed.
VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 4
Fill out Sections One, Two, Three, Five and Six of this
application — see Pages 5 to 8.
The names and date of birth on the documents provided
must match those on the birth certificate and photo ID.
If the names are different, you must submit additional
documentation showing how the name was changed.
Fill out Sections One, Two, Three, Five and Six of this
application — see Pages 5 to 8.
The names and date of birth on the documents provided
must match those on the birth certificate and photo ID.
If the names are different, you must submit additional
documentation showing how the name was changed.
Table B. Parent(s) or Legal Guardian(s) Changing Gender Marker and/or Name Change on Their Child’s
Birth Certificate
#
Put a check
mark (✔) on
the item that
applies to you.
(For your use only.) I am the I want to What do I need to do?
1 Parent(s)
or legal
guardian(s)
of the
minor child
(younger
than age
18) listed
on the birth
certificate
Change
the gender
marker
on my
child’s birth
certificate
and legally
change their
name
•
• Submit applicable fees — see Page 8.
• Sign Page 7 and notarize Page 8. If both parents are
listed on the birth certificate, they both must sign.*
• Provide copies of valid signed photo IDs of the parent(s)
or legal guardian(s).
• Provide the original legal guardianship court order, if you
are the legal guardian(s).
• Obtain a certified legal name change court order. If you
live in NYC, you must go to Civil Court and request a legal
name change. If you live outside NYC, go to the appropriate
court in your area and request a legal name change. The
certified legal name change court order must include the full
name at birth, date of birth, place of birth, name of parent(s)
on the birth certificate and certificate number.
•
2 Parent(s)
or legal
guardian(s)
of the
minor child
(younger
than age
18) listed
on the birth
certificate
Change
only the
gender
marker
on my
child’s birth
certificate
•
• Submit applicable fees — see Page 8.
• Sign Page 7 and notarize Page 8. If both parents are
listed on the birth certificate, they both must sign.*
• Provide copies of valid signed photo IDs of the parent(s)
or legal guardian(s).
• Provide the original legal guardianship court order, if you
are the legal guardian(s).
•
*What to do if the second parent is deceased or one parent cannot sign:
• If the second parent is alive, an original court order is needed to allow one parent to sign for the registrant.
• If the second parent died outside NYC, provide an original copy of their death certificate.
• If the second parent died in NYC (Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn, Bronx, Staten Island), provide a copy of their
NYC death certificate.
VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 5
Section One: What Is Your Name?
Note that you must be at least 18 years old. Print clearly and use black ink only. Use the name that
currently appears on your ID.
FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME
MAILING ADDRESS APARTMENT NUMBER
CITY STATE ZIP CODE
PRIMARY PHONE NUMBER ALTERNATE PHONE NUMBER EMAIL ADDRESS
Relationship to applicant: Self Mother/parent Father/parent Legal guardian
Marital partnership status: Single/never married Married Separated Divorced
Widowed Registered domestic partnership
Section Two: Birth Certificate Information
For this section, write what is listed on the birth certificate that you want to correct.
Birth certificate number (leave blank if unknown): 1 5 6 — —
Name on the birth certificate as it currently appears:
FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME
Date of birth listed on the birth certificate (month/day/year):
Sex on the birth certificate as it currently appears: Male Female X*
*X is a gender that is not exclusively male or female (a nonbinary gender identity).
Mother’s maiden name on the birth certificate as it currently appears:
FIRST NAME LAST NAME
Place of birth on the birth certificate as it currently appears (leave blank if unknown):
NAME OF HOSPITAL, BIRTHING CENTER OR, IF AT HOME, STREET ADDRESS, CITY, STATE, ZIP CODE
VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 6
Section Three: What Do You Want to Change?
Use one line per correction. We cannot accept a form with text that is crossed out or with Wite-Out on it.
If you make a mistake, use a new application form.
Do you need a letter of exemplification? (There is no additional fee.) Yes No
What do you want
to change?
What is currently listed on the
birth certificate?
What should it say on the
birth record?
Example: Gender marker Example: Male Example: Female
Example: First name Example: Michael Example: Jane
VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 7
Do not use Wite-Out or cross out information.
Section Four: Sign Your Application
Print your full name below if you are completing this application for yourself and you are age 18 or older. If you did
not legally change your name, use the name as it appears on your birth certificate (first, middle and last name).
If you legally changed your name, print the name listed on the court order.
I, , hereby attest under the penalty of perjury that the request to
First, middle and last name
change the gender marker on my birth certificate from to
Male, female or X* Male, female or X*
is to reflect my true gender identity and is not for any fraudulent purpose.
*X is a gender that is not exclusively male or female (a nonbinary gender identity).
You must sign below (if you are age 18 or older and are requesting the correction of your own birth certificate):
SIGNATURE OF PERSON COMPLETING THIS APPLICATION DATE
If you filled out Section Four, skip Section Five
and go to Section Six.
Section Five: Parent(s) or Legal Guardian(s) Sign the Application for a Child Younger Than Age 18
Print the full name(s) (first, middle and last name) of the parent(s) listed on the child’s birth certificate. If this application
is being completed by the child’s legal guardian(s), print the full names listed on the legal guardianship court order. If
you are also changing the child’s name, print the full name(s) of the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) as listed on the legal
name change court order. If both parents are listed on the birth certificate, both parents must sign this application.
I, and , hereby attest under the penalty of
First, middle and last name of First, middle and last name of
mother/parent or legal guardian father/parent or legal guardian
perjury that the request to change the gender marker on my child’s birth certificate from Male, female or X*
to is to reflect their true gender identity and is not for any fraudulent purpose.
Male, female or X*
*X is a gender that is not exclusively male or female (a nonbinary gender identity).
Parent(s) or legal guardian(s) listed above must sign below:
SIGNATURE OF MOTHER/PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN DATE
SIGNATURE OF FATHER/PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN DATE
Go to Section Six.
VR 218 (Rev. 1/24) 8Application for Gender Marker Change on a NYC Birth Certificate
Section Six: Notarize Your Application
This application must be notarized on this page.
To be completed by notary. Notary Public Seal
State of
County of
Subscribed and sworn before me:
this _________ day of _________, 20 _________
Notary Public Signature
Warning! No person shall make a false, untrue or misleading statement or forge the signature of another
on an application required to be prepared pursuant to the New York City Health Code. A violation of
the Health Code shall be punishable as a misdemeanor (NYC HEALTH CODE 3.19). Submitting false
identification is a crime and violators are subject to prosecution.
Fees and How To Submit Your Application
There is a nonrefundable $40 application processing fee to make this change,
plus $15 per copy for each amended certificate.
For example, the cost of amending a birth certificate and requesting two amended copies is $70:
Processing fee = $40 + $30 for two certificates = $70 total.
Figure Out the Cost of Your Request
Nonrefundable processing fee: $40
Number of amended birth certificates requested (maximum of 3): ________________
Multiplied by $15 for each corrected certificate equals: $_______________
Total amount enclosed: $_______________
Please make your check or money order payable to: NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.
Cash is not accepted. In-person customer service is available by appointment. In-person customers may pay
using a credit or debit card, check, or money order. To make an in-person appointment,
visit bit.ly/book-certificate-appointment.
Mail to: NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Corrections Unit
Attention: Group A
125 Worth Street, Room 144, CN-4
New York, NY 10013
For assistance with this application, call 311 or email tgnyc@health.nyc.gov.