Close Menu
A Vital Safety Net for Hoosiers
Over 2 million Hoosiers can let their minds rest at ease knowing they have access to quality healthcare. Our programs serve a variety of populations, including some of the most vulnerable, such as children and people with disabilities. We can help ensure your medical needs are not obstacles to achieving self-sufficient and productive lives.
Take a Screening to See if You Qualify
Screening for Health Benefits
Answer the questions in the screening tool to see if you might be eligible for Health Coverage.
Already qualified? Check/Update your Case Status
See if I Qualify
Get Coverage
FAQs
Contact Us
Apply for Coverage
Click here to submit an application for health coverage on the FSSA benefits portal.
Click Here
Find a Medicaid Provider
We have more than 50,000 providers who can help you get the healthcare you need. Click here to start your
search.
Click
Here
Apply for Coverage on the federal Marketplace
Don&#8217;t qualify for Medicaid? You may be eligible for healthcare coverage through the federal Marketplace.
Click
Here
Need help or have questions about applying for coverage?
Individuals are available to help answer basic questions about your options and can assist with submitting
an application. Click here to find an individual in your county.
Click Here
Member Rights and Responsibilities
As a recipient of medical assistance (Medicaid), you have certain rights and responsibilities. You can
learn more about these here.
Click
Here
Authorized Representative Form
Need us to share information with someone? Click here to learn more about completing an Authorized
Representative form so we can provide updates to someone you trust.
Click
Here
Family and Social Services Administration Frequently Asked Question
Click Here
Need an answer to a general question about your healthcare benefits?
Call the Member Services phone line at 1-800-457-4584
Need help selecting a health plan?
Call our enrollment
broker (Maximus) phone line:
For HIP:
877-438-4479
For Hoosier Care Connect:
866-963-7383
For Hoosier Healthwise:
800-889-9949
For Indiana PathWays for Aging:
877-284-9294
Need to contact your health plan?
Click on the links below to access each health plan&#8217;s website:
Anthem CareSource MHS UnitedHealthcare
Need to report fraud?
Call the Fraud phone line at 1-800-403-0864
Click
Here
Get Important News & Updates
Sign up for email and/or text notices of Medicaid and other FSSA news, reminders, and other important
information. When registering your email, check the category on the drop-down list to receive notices of
Medicaid updates; check other areas of interest on the drop-down list to receive notices for other types of
FSSA updates.
Sign Up
Provider News & Events
See More