Skip to main content
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Vital Records
The information below explains the steps you need to follow to amend a Wisconsin vital record.
How to correct a birth record when the birth occurred less than 365 days ago
About two weeks after the birth of a child, the mother will get a Notification of Birth Registration form in the mail. You can use this form to make corrections to and order copies of the birth record.
If you need to make a correction to a birth record you’ve already ordered, mail the incorrect certificates back to our office. Also include a signed note stating what needs to be corrected. We’ll send corrected certificates back to you.
If you need to change any part of your child’s name, please contact us. You’ll need to fill out a Name Change Within the First Year of Life form. For a one-time name change within 365 days after the child’s birth, there is no charge.
How to correct a birth record when the birth occurred more than 365 days ago
If you have a certified copy of the record, mail it to our office with a note explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be.
We’ll look over the record and send you the amendment instructions if needed.
If you don’t have a certified copy of the record:
Apply for a certified copy using the normal application process.
Submit your application explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be.
We’ll look over the record and send you amendment instructions if needed.
How to correct a death record when the death occurred less than 365 days ago
If the death happened less than one year ago, corrections can still be made by the funeral director. This includes changes to name, date of birth, marital status, address, etc. If changes must be made to the cause-of-death section, they must be made by the medical certifier.
How to correct a death record when the death occurred more than 365 days ago
If the death occurred more than one year ago, a court order is needed to make corrections.
If you have a certified copy of the record, mail it to our office. With it, add a note explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be.
We’ll look over the record and send you the court order forms and instructions if needed.
If you don’t have a certified copy of the record:
Apply for a certified copy using the normal application process.
Submit your application explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be.
We’ll look over the record and send you the court order forms and instructions if needed.
How to correct a marriage record when the marriage occurred less than 365 days ago
If the marriage occurred less than one year ago, the officiant or the county clerk who issued the license can make corrections. For more information, please contact our office .
How to correct a marriage record when the marriage occurred more than 365 days ago
If the marriage occurred more than one year ago, a court order is needed to make corrections.
If you have a certified copy of the record, mail it to our office. With it, add a note explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be.
We’ll look over the record and send you the court order form and instructions if needed.
If you don’t have a certified copy of the record:
Apply for a certified copy using the normal application process.
Submit your application explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be.
We’ll look over the record and send you the court order form and instructions if needed.
How to amend a birth record following a legal name change or confidential legal name change
To learn more about getting a legal name change or confidential legal name change, contact the clerk of court in the county where you live. See Listing of All Wisconsin Clerks of Court (PDF) .
We can accept a legal name change court order from any court in the United States or Canada.
Once a legal name change or confidential legal name change court order has been issued, submit a certified copy of it to our office. “Certified” means the document contains an original court seal. The certified court order will be returned to you once the name change has been finished in our office.
The fee to file a legal name change or confidential legal name change court order in our office is $10. This doesn’t include a certified copy of the amended birth certificate. The first certified copy is $20, and each extra copy is $3.
Once a confidential legal name change has been processed, a court order is required for any future copies of the record to be issued. We highly recommend submitting fees for birth certificates when submitting your confidential legal name change court order and fee, since you will need to get a court order to release the birth record in the future.
Wisconsin law requires that when a legal name change is processed, the birth certificate must have an annotation showing the date of the amendment, the authority for the amendment, which items were amended, and the old information for those items. This annotation is required by law for both standard and confidential legal name changes.
Please mail to:
Wisconsin Vital Records
ATTN: PSSU
PO Box 309
Madison, WI 53701
How to amend a birth record following a sex change
To change the sex on a birth record, after a sex change, please mail the following:
A certified copy of a court order from the United States or Canada that orders the sex designation on the birth record to be changed.
A $20 fee to file the court order. This does not include a certified copy of the new birth certificate. The first certified copy is $20, and each extra copy is $3.
How to change birth certificate labels from mother-father to parent-parent
If you’d like to change your or your child’s birth certificate labels from mother-father to parent-parent, please contact the Vital Records Office by email at dhsvitalrecords@wisconsin.gov or call 608-266-1373.
Questions? Contact us
Glossary
Last revised April 18, 2025