Skip to main content
In-Person Amendment Requests at Regional Offices
Beginning Nov. 17, 2025 , the Richland County office (formally known as the State Office) will no longer process same-day amendment requests. Most in-person amendment requests submitted at regional offices , including the Richland County office, will be completed within 1–2 business days once reviewed by the amendment team in the central office. Court ordered amendments may take up to 2 weeks to allow for proper legal review and processing.
Vital Records Forms
Note: All applicants must provide a photocopy or show a valid government, school or employer issued photo identification. Applications without proper identification will be rejected and not processed.
Commonly Used Forms
Certified Copy of a Death Certificate (pdf) Solicitud de la partida el certificado de defuncióne (pdf)
Certified Copy of a Birth Certificate (pdf) Solicitud de la partida de nacimiento (pdf)
Certified Copy of a Marriage Certificate or Divorce Report (pdf) Solicitud para el certificado de matrimonio/divorcio (pdf)
South Carolina Certificate of Death Non-Funeral Home Worksheet (pdf)
Adoptee & Biological Parent Forms
Effective July 1, 2019, Section 44-63-140 of the South Carolina Code was amended to allow adult adoptees, age 18 or older, who were born in South Carolina, to obtain a copy of the adoptee’s original birth certificate, and any evidence of the adoption held with the original birth record, if the biological parent has completed the necessary forms consenting to the release of the certificate. A biological parent may also indicate their contact preference and consent to release medical history information.
This law applies to adoptions finalized after July 1, 2019.
Vital Records Non-Certified Pre-Adoptive Birth Application (pdf)
Biological Parent's Consent and Contact Preference Form (pdf)
Biological Parent's Medical History Form (pdf)
Biological Parent's Request to Add Consent/Contact Preference (pdf)
For more information, contact us .
Tags
vital records