Skip to main content
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
ForwardHealth
Many clinics in Wisconsin provide services for people with little or no health care coverage. There are four types of clinics you can visit for free and low-cost care:
Federally qualified health centers (FQHCs)
Community-based groups that offer medical, dental, behavioral health, and other services. They serve people with low income and different cultural and language needs. They bring quality, affordable care to areas that don’t always have it.
Rural health centers
Clinics in rural areas that deliver primary and preventive health care. They bring doctors to areas that don’t always have high-quality care.
Tribal health centers
Outpatient health programs or facilities operated by Tribal organizations. They offer medical, dental, behavioral health, and other services.
Free and charitable clinics
Non-profit groups that offer free medical, dental, vision, pharmacy, and mental health services. They serve people without insurance or not enough insurance to afford care.
Find a free and low-cost health clinic
Use the ForwardHealth provider search tool to find a free and low-cost health clinic. This tool is designed for BadgerCare Plus and Wisconsin Medicaid members, but anyone can use it to find care.
Tip : Type "FQHC," "Rural Health Clinic," or "FQHC Tribal" in the Provider Name/Service field to find the specific types of clinics listed above.
Use the ForwardHealth provider search tool
If you have an HMO (health maintenance organization), you should use their provider search to find in-network providers. Each HMO has different providers. Find a list of HMOs:
BadgerCare Plus: Member Information
Elderly, Blind, or Disabled Medicaid and SSI Medicaid Member Information
Other lists of Wisconsin clinics
Use these additional lists to find free and low-cost dental and health care. The clinics in these lists are also available in the ForwardHealth provider search tool.
Oral Health Program: Find Dental Care
Wisconsin Free and Charitable Clinics
Related pages
Consumer Guide: Free or Reduced-Fee Medical Care Services
Consumer Guide: Free or Reduced-Fee Dental Services
Consumer Guide: Free or Reduced-Fee Vision Services
Glossary
Last revised February 24, 2026