Protecting Your Rights Means
Fighting For All of Us
The ACLU of Puerto Rico defends your civil rights and liberties - in the courts, at the Capitol, and with the people.
Donate Today
The Latest
Press Release
Mexican immigrant removed from Puerto Rico granted release on bond
The Immigration Court held a bond hearing in which Sandro González Domínguez appeared via videoconference from Florida, while immigration agencies continued to defy a federal judge's order requiring his return.
Issue Areas:
Immigrant Rights
Court Cases:
Sandro González Domínguez v. Garret J. Rippa, et al.
Press Release
ACLU of Puerto Rico supports bill to ban the use of mass surveillance
In endorsing House Bill 1421, the organization stated that mass surveillance is unconstitutional, disproportionate, and incompatible with a democratic society.
Issue Areas:
Privacy &#038; Technology
Press Release
More than 150 Puerto Rico National Guard soldiers are patrolling the streets of Washington, D.C., without justification
The ACLU of Puerto Rico stated that Governor Jenniffer González must order the immediate withdrawal of all our troops so they can return home.
Press Release
Mass surveillance proposals under consideration by the legislature threaten constitutional protections
The ACLU of Puerto Rico warned that while public safety is a shared goal, that objective is not achieved by violating rights—as is the case with Senate Bill 974, House Bill 897, and Senate Joint Resolution 198.
Issue Areas:
Privacy &#038; Technology , Free Speech
Issues We're Monitoring
Criminal Law Reform
Free Speech
Human Rights
Immigrant Rights
LGBTQ + Community Rights
Prisoners Rights
View All Issues
Request Help
Learn how to request help from the ACLU of Puerto Rico and submit a civil rights and liberties complaint.
Request Help
Featured Case
ACLU of PR v. DTOP
The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Puerto Rico filed a petition for mandamus in the Court of First Instance in San Juan against the Secretary of the Department of Transportation and Public Works (DTOP), Edwin González Montalvo, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, seeking the immediate release of all documents related to the transfer of confidential information concerning nearly 6,000 migrants who obtained driver’s licenses under Act No. 97 of 2013, including a subpoena allegedly issued by a federal agency.
The ACLU-PR’s action comes after DTOP refused to provide copies of information requests issued by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and agencies such as U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), as well as the legal assessments and the information that was turned over in response to those requests. The agency’s response relied on generalities, without legally substantiating its claim of confidentiality, which constitutes a failure to perform a ministerial duty and a flagrant violation of the right of access to public information, a constitutional right in Puerto Rico.
The lawsuit is based on the public disclosure that, between February and March 2025, DTOP turned over personal data on nearly 6,000 drivers with unregularized immigration status to federal immigration agencies. The federal government later confirmed that these data are being actively used to identify immigrants, locate them, arrest them without a warrant, and deport them.
The ACLU-PR underscored that this action by the government of Puerto Rico was carried out in direct contravention of Act 97-2013 itself, which requires the Secretary of DTOP to establish the necessary mechanisms to ensure that this registry cannot be used to discriminate and that the information is not disclosed.
View All Cases
Make an impact
Take Action
Today, years of hard-fought civil liberty protections are under threat.
To influence lawmakers, we need everyone to get involved.
Defiende nuestras costas: exige un voto en contra del Proyecto de la Cámara 25
Envía tu petición
Migrar no es un Crimen: Protege a la comunidad migrante en Puerto Rico
Actúa Ahora
Migrating is not a Crime: Protect the Migrant Community in Puerto Rico
Send Message
Action {{ slotProps.activeSlide }} of
3
Stay Informed
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement .
English
Español
This site is registered on wpml.org as a development site. Switch to a production site key to remove this banner .