Skip to main content
0
Change Your Sex Identifier
To get a new credential, you must request the change in person and present a new Colorado birth certificate or DR 2083 form. There is no additional fee for people to change the sex identifier, however, individuals will need to pay the standard fee to obtain a new credential.
People can designate M (male), F (female) or X.
To change your sex designation when renewing or applying for a driver license or identification card, you need to present a Colorado birth certificate or the DR 2083 Change of Sex Designation form (opens in new window) .
Coloradans younger than 18 need a health care provider and a parent, guardian or legal representative to sign the DR 2083 Change of Sex Designation form (opens in new window) .
Return the completed form to a driver license office and apply for or renew your credential to change your sex identifier. You must appear at an office in person to change your sex identifier.
If you changed your name, please visit the Social Security Administration , then wait 24 hours before visiting a Driver License Office with your new birth certificate so the DMV can add your new name.
PLEASE NOTE
Online renewal and renewal by mail cannot be used to change the sex designation on a Colorado driver license, identification card, or identification document.
Colorado law does not require residents to undergo any specific surgery, treatment, clinical care or behavioral healthcare to update their sex designation.
Under Colorado law, C.R.S. 42-2-107(2)(a)(III), the DMV may only amend a sex designation for a person's DMV credential one time at that person's request. Additional requests require the person to submit a court order indicating the sex change designation is required.
More Information
To get a new birth certificate, please visit the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment . Instructions on what to do once you have a new birth certificate .
FAQ: Non-binary Sex Identifier on Driver Licenses and Identification Cards
Original text
Rate this translation
Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate
Give us feedback
Close
Did you find what you were looking for?
1/5 2/5 3/5 4/5 5/5
Contact Us We’re gathering your feedback to improve the site.
Note: If you need help, please use the Contact Us link above.
0 /1000
Submit
Don't show this again