Adult Name Change
Adult Name Change
Each district court has specific local rules that may apply in your case. Check with the clerk of the district court in your county. If you fail to follow the local rules, you may not be able to finish your case.
Introduction
The procedure for legally changing your name is somewhat complicated. It is up to you to decide whether and how you use a lawyer in your case. The law allows you to do your own name change, which is also known as proceeding pro se (pronounced “pro-say”). Another option is to hire a lawyer to do only part of your case. This is called Limited Scope Representation. To find out more about Limited Scope Representation click on this link , or here http://nefindalawyer.com/ .
This packet of forms and instructions is intended for an adult who wishes to change his or her name, and has resided in the county where the Petition is to be filed for at least one year before filing the Petition.
Facts About Filing for a Name Change in Nebraska
Any person wishing to change his or her name may file a petition in the district court in the county in which the person resides so long as that person has been a bona fide resident of that county for at least one (1) year before filing the petition for a name change.
Note: In Nebraska, an “adult” is an individual who has attained the age of 19, is a minor who has been emancipated by court order, or is married pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 43-2101 and 42-105 . If you wish to change your name, and you are not 19, emancipated or married you will need your parent or guardian to file for you.
You may change your first name, middle name, and/or your last name.
There is a cost to file a Petition for Name Change. Once you file your Petition your case will be assigned a case number. This number must be on all documents filed with the court. You should be aware that there are additional costs associated with providing notice that you intend to change your name (see Legal Notice below).
Statute requires a Legal Notice of your Petition for Name Change must be published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in the newspaper, which will add cost to the process of your name change. Before filing paperwork you should be sure that you have all the money you will need to complete the process. You should call the newspaper and ask the cost of filing a Legal Notice for two consecutive weeks (costs differ from newspaper to newspaper) and have that money available before you file your petition.
In instances where a petitioner may be endangered by the publication of the Notice of Filing of a Petition for a Name Change, the requirement to publish may be waived by order of the Court. Neb. Rev. Stat § 25-21,271(2)(b ) . A petitioner believing, they, or a party for whom they are petitioning would be endangered by publication may request the requirement be waived.
If you file a Petition for Name Change without the assistance of an attorney you must complete all the forms necessary. The clerk of the district court cannot assist you in preparing any legal documents, or advise you of the process.
Forms
​Complete list of forms and instructions.
To begin the process you must take your completed Petition for Name Change (DC 6:9.1) and the Confidential Party Information - Adult Name Change (DC 6:9.4) , along with the filing fee to the clerk of the district court in the county in which you reside. Please refer to the Instructions for Completing the Petition (DC 6:9.1a) and the Instructions for Completing the Confidential Party Information - Adult Name Change (DC 6:9.4a) for details on how to fill out these two forms.
Legal Notice by Publication
After filing the Petition for Name Change you must give notice that you are changing your name in a newspaper or obtain an order waiving the requirement to publish.
In cases a petitioner is required to publish the Notice of Filing for a Name Change, the petitioner will publish in the county where the Petition is filed, or in a newspaper in general circulation in that county. Before the Legal Notice can be prepared you will need to set a hearing date. To set a hearing date ask the clerk the name and phone number of the bailiff or other court personnel to contact to schedule the hearing. The hearing should not be scheduled any sooner than approximately six (6) weeks from the time you filed your Petition, so as to give you the necessary time to have the Legal Notice published once a week for two (2) weeks prior to the hearing.
Once you have a hearing date you should immediately complete the Legal Notice form (DC 6:9.2) and contact the newspaper to arrange the publication of the Legal Notice, as well as to have the newspaper provide the court with proof that the Legal Notice was published at least once a week for two (2) weeks. Please refer to the Instructions for Completing the Legal Notice for Publication (DC 6:9.2a) for details on how to fill out this form.
If you wish to request a court waive the requirement to publish the Notice of Filing of Name Change, you must complete the Petitioner's Showing and Request for Waiver of Publication . This should be filed at the same time as the Petition for Name Change. A showing means you need to present evidence in the form of documentation to support your request. Note: This form does require hard copy documents supporting the request for the waiver be provided by the petitioner to the court. The clerk’s office will notify you of the judge’s decision in writing (or e-mail if your e-mail address is registered with court). If the judge grants your order, you may proceed without publication and can contact the court to set a hearing date. If the judge denies your request to waive publication, you will need to complete the steps for publication noted above.
You will need to mail a copy of the published notice (what was in the newspaper) to the last known address of all people appearing to have a legal interest in this matter. This has to be done within 5 days after the notice has been published in the newspaper for the first time .
To tell the court that you mailed these copies, and that you tried to find any other person(s) appearing to have a legal interest in the case, you will complete and file an Affidavit of Mailing Published Notice (DC 6:6.8 ) using the Instructions for Completing the Affidavit of Mailing Published Notice (DC 6:6.8a) . This form MUST be filed with the court within 10 days after you mailed a copy of the newspaper’s published notice to all interested people.
The court will not hear your case until this form is filed, so make certain you file it before your hearing.
In this form you are swearing under oath that you mailed them. This form must be notarized.
Court Hearing on Name Change
Prior to the hearing date set for the case you must prepare the Decree of Name Change (DC 6:9.3) using the Instructions for Completing the Decree of Name Change (DC 6:9.3a) as well as prepare your testimony for the hearing. You will want to bring two copies of the Decree of Name Change to your hearing. The judge will keep an original with his or her signature for the court file and will give you a copy for your records.
Prior to the hearing date you should check with the clerk of the district court to make sure the newspaper has filed an affidavit saying the Legal Notice was published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks.
You must attend the hearing and testify under oath about the issues raised in the Petition for Name Change. The issues raised are covered in the Instructions for Your Adult Name Change Hearing (DC 6:9a) .
Once the court has granted your request for a name change and signed the Decree of Name Change you will need to obtain a certified copy of the Decree of Name Change from the clerk of the district court. Once you have received a certified copy of the Decree, you may use that certified copy to change your records with the Department of Motor Vehicles as well as the Social Security Administration.
Home
Administration
Nebraska Court Scam Alert
Branch Overview
News and Media Information
Media Releases
Exhibit List for Judicial Resources Commission Hearing
News
Credential Application
Credentialed Media
Media Coordinators
Reporters&#039; Guide to Nebraska Trial Court Procedures
Nebraska Court Coverage Guidelines for Judges, Attorneys, and Journalists
Three Judge Panel in a Nebraska Capital Murder Case Reference Sheet
Memo to Editors and News Directors Regarding Public Comment by Judges
Nebraska State Court Appearances Involving Inmates
Replacing a Judge in the Nebraska Trial Court System
How to Report on Nebraska’s Trial Courts
Pop-up Student Journalist Class
Commemoration of the Supreme Court Decision in Nebraska Press Association v. Stuart – 1976
The Responsibilities of Judgeship
Student Journalist Materials for Reporting Education Session: Nebraska’s Appellate Level Court
Committees & Commissions
Access to Justice Commission & Committees
Improvement of Justice - Committees
Judges | Employee Associations
Judges | Staff | Mediation Committees
Judicial Nominating Commissions
Judicial Nominating Commissioner&#039;s Manual
Lawyer Committees
Professional Ethics
Interpreter Ethics
Probation Code of Ethics
Professional Ethics for Mediators
Attorney Discipline & Ethics
Counsel for Discipline
How to File an Attorney Grievance
Attorney Sanctions
Lawyer Ethics Opinions
Judicial Discipline & Ethics
How to File a Judicial Complaint
Nebraska Judicial Discipline Archive
Judicial Ethics Committee Opinions
State Library
Catalog Search
Online Legal Resources
Judicial Branch Awards
Distinguished Judge Awards
Everyday Heroes
Judicial Branch Recognition Program
Evaluation Criteria
Nomination Procedure
Prior Recipients
Recognition Committee
Attorneys
Nebraska Lawyers Assistance Program
Attorney Services Division
Admission to the Practice of Law
Admissions: General Instructions (FAQs)
Application for Admission by Examination
Application for Admission on Motion
Deadlines and Fees
Re-Application for Admission by Exam
Annual Licensure
Counsel for Discipline
Guardians ad Litem Information
Mandatory Continuing Legal Education
Judicial Vacancies and Judicial Nominating Commission Information
Judicial Vacancy Application Package
Approved Financial Institutions
Search Nebraska Licensed Attorneys
Unauthorized Practice of Law
Publications & Reports
Publications & Reports Archive
Public
Glossary
Guardianship and Conservatorship Information
Guardianship | Conservatorship FAQ
Jury Service
Marriage Ceremony Compilation
Marriage Ceremony 1
Marriage Ceremony 2
Marriage Ceremony 3A
Marriage Ceremony 3B
Marriage Ceremony 4
Marriage Ceremony 5A
Marriage Ceremony 5B
Marriage Ceremony 6
Voters’ Guide to Nebraska’s Judicial Retention Elections
2026 Judicial Retention Election
Self-Represented Litigant Resources
Appeals Resources
Appealing a Workers&#039; Compensation Court Decision to the Court of Appeals
Appealing to Supreme Court or Court of Appeals
Appealing|Setting Aside a County Court Civil or Small Claims Judgment
Handgun Certificate Denial|Revocation Appeal
Divorce - No Children - Updated Format
Name Change Adult - Updated Format
Name Change - Adult
Protection Order - Domestic Violence
Protection Order - Harassment
Filing a Small Claims Case
Protection Order - Sexual Assault
Small Claims Court Defendents
Nebraska Judicial Electronic Exhibits System
Rules
Rule Amendments
External Court Rules
Personnel and Miscellaneous Rules
Administrative Policies & Schedules
Judgment Interest Rate
Filing Fees and Court Costs
Court Records Search Policy for Nebraska Courts
Media Information and Court Coverage Protocol
Records Retention Disposition Schedules
Temporary Appointment of County Judges Policy
Nebraska Domestic Abuse Protection Order Policy
Parenting Act Fund Policy
Courts
Appellate Courts Offices
Clerk of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals
Daily Minutes
Reporter of Decisions Office
Appellate Court Call Calendar
Supreme Court
Supreme Court Justices
Supreme Court Call
Supreme Court Proposed Call
Supreme Court Opinions
Traveling Oral Arguments: Outreach
Ceremonial Sessions
Session Livestream
Oral Argument Archive
Court of Appeals
Court of Appeals Judges
Court of Appeals Call
Court of Appeals Proposed Call
Court of Appeals Opinions
College Campus Initiative: Outreach
Ceremonial Sessions
Oral Argument Archive
District Court
Calendar Search
Clerks & Contact Information
Court Reporters
District Court Judges
Administrative Orders and Policies - District Court
Separate Juvenile Courts
Court Contacts
Separate Juvenile Court Judges
Court Reporting Personnel
Administrative Orders and Policies - Separate Juvenile Courts
County Court
Calendar Search
County Court Contacts
County Court Judges
Administrative Orders and Policies - County Court
Problem-Solving Courts
Contacts
PSC News
Problem-Solving Court Types
Adult Drug and DUI Courts
Family Treatment Courts
Juvenile Drug Courts
Mental Health Courts
Reentry Courts
Veterans Treatment Courts
Young Adult Courts
Resources
Workers&#039; Compensation Court
District Map
Programs & Services
Access to Justice Commission
Committee on Equity and Fairness
Consortium of Tribal, State, and Federal Courts
Court User Survey
Judge Frankie Moore Self-Represented Litigant Access and Innovation Award
Self-Represented Litigation Committee
Community Engagement and Public Information
Court of Appeals’ College Campus Initiative
Events and Celebrations
Nebraska Probation Week
Nebraska Problem-Solving Court Month
Nebraska Trial Court Week
History of the Nebraska Judicial Branch
National Adoption Day
Social Media
Speakers Bureau
Supreme Court High School & Law School Argument Sessions
Teacher & Student Resources
Education
Judicial Branch Education
Court Improvement Project
CIP Publications
What Now? Child Welfare Guide
What Now? Juvenile Justice Guide
Supreme Court Commission on Children in the Courts
Subcommittees
Through the Eyes of the Child Initiative
Teams
Education and Events
Information for Youth and Families
Information for Professionals and Stakeholders
Cross-Over Youth and Status Offenders
Caselaw Updates
About
Resources
Archived CIP Newsletters
Bench Cards
Data & Research
Other Resources and Websites
Videos & Trainings
Office of the Public Guardian
Court Appointment Process
FAQ
Guardian and Conservator Education
Internships, Externships, and Volunteer Programs
Resources for Private Guardians and Conservators
Aging & Adult
COVID-19 Resources
Child & Family
Contact Someone in Your Area
Developmental Disabilities
Financial Resources
Frequently Asked Questions for Guardians and Conservators
Mental Health
Webinars
Waiting List
Ward Memorials
OPG - Blog
Language Access
Interpreter Certification Pathway
Interpreter Resources
Standard Operating Procedures
Statewide Register of Interpreters
Mediation & Restorative Justice
Find a Mediator
Mediator Portal
ODR Events
Mediation Centers
Mediating a Parenting Plan
Parenting Education Classes
Restorative Justice
ODR Documents & Resources
Parenting Act Mediator Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Probation
Adult Probation Services Division
Adult Field Services
Emerging Adult Pilot Program
Resources
Services
Juvenile Probation Services Division
JJSEN
Case Management
Crossover Youth Practice Model
Funding
Intake
Juvenile Detention Alternatives Initiative (JDAI)
Juvenile Justice Home-Based Initiative
Out-of-Home Placement
Pre-Adjudication & Investigation
RISE
Reentry
2026 Artwork Contest
Rehabilitative Services
Resources
Service Definitions - Adult
Service Definitions - Juvenile
Services
Standardized Model
Interstate Compact | Interdistrict Transfer
Registered Service Providers
Registered Service Providers by District
Chief Probation Officers
Probation Policy Forms
District Map
Directories
Supreme Court Justices
Court of Appeals Judges
District Court Judges
District Court Contacts
County Court Judges
County Court Contacts
Separate Juvenile Court Judges
Separate Juvenile Court Contacts
Workers&#039; Compensation Court Judges
Chief Probation Officers
Interpreters
Media Coordinators
Mediators
Problem-Solving Court
Court Reporting Personnel
District Map
District 1
District 2
District 3
District 4
District 5
District 6
District 7
District 8
District 9
District 10
District 11
District 12
E-Services
Appellate Courts Online Library
Case Information
Court Calendar Search
eFiling
ePayments
Forms
Self-Help
Legal Resources & Information
Glossary
Appeals
Appealing or Setting Aside A County Court Civil or Small Claims Judgment
Appealing to Supreme Court|Court of Appeals
Appealing a Workers&#039; Compensation Decision to the Court of Appeals
Handgun Certificate Denial or Revocation Appeal
Clean Slate - Criminal Record Rehabilitation
Eligibility Questionnaire
Adult Record Sealing
Juvenile Record Sealing
Set-Aside of a Criminal Conviction
Pardons
Court Records
Criminal History Report
Obtaining a Copy of Your Court Record That Has Been Sealed
Request to Open Adoption Records for Adoption Decree or Medical Records
Online Court Case Search
Records That Are No Longer Available
Request for a Typed Transcript of a Trial or Proceeding
County Court
District Court
Criminal
Additional Information: Felony Cases in Nebraska
Additional Information: Misdemeanor Cases in Nebraska
Estates
Additional Information: Estates
Affidavit for Transfer of Personal Property without Probate
Affidavit for Transfer of Real Property without Probate
Claims Against Estate
Deposit of Will
Title Transfer for the Deceased&#039;s Motor Vehicle
Families & Children
Simple Divorce - No Children
Simple Divorce - With Children
Child Support
Child Support Termination
Emancipation
Enforcement of Alimony or Property Settlement Orders
Enforcement of Child Support Orders
Enforcement of Visitation Orders
Establishment of Paternity
Modification of Child Support
Modification of Custody or Parenting Plan
Temporary Delegation of Parental Powers
Sibling Intervention
Financial
Garnishments
Power of Attorney
Fines & Court Costs
Requests for Payment Alternatives
Where the Money Goes
General Court Forms
Filing a Motion for Continuance of Court Hearing
Motion to Dismiss
Waiver and Plea of Guilty
Guardians & Conservators
Limited Scope Representation
For People Wanting Limited Legal Assistance
For Attorneys
Medical
Power of Attorney - Medical
Waiver of Parental Consent for Abortion for Minors
Name Change
Adult Name Change
Child Name Change
Protection Order Information
Which Protection Order Do You Choose?
Domestic Abuse Protection Order
Harassment Protection Order
Sexual Assault Protection Order
If You Have Been Served with a Protection Order
Frequently Asked Questions
Renter|Landlord
Landlord
Renter|Tenant
Small Claims
Filing a Small Claims Case in Nebraska
Appealing or Setting Aside A Small Claims Judgment
Collecting Your Money After A Judgment & Information For Judgment Debtor
Small Claims Glossary
Traffic
Additional Information: Traffic Cases in Nebraska
Workers&#039; Compensation Court
Contact
facebook
Twitter X
Linkedin