Skip to main content
In this section
Email Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Clinic
Share Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Clinic on Facebook
Share Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Clinic on Twitter
Share Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Clinic on LinkedIn
Print Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Clinic
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Clinic
You belong here. Our LGBTQ team is proud to provide welcoming and affirming health care for all.
Request an Appointment
For all requests:
1-800-777-8442
Refer a Patient
Find a Provider
Request an Appointment
Research Study Opportunity for Transgender Patients
Transgender and gender diverse patients are invited to participate in a study about alcohol use and drinking-related experiences. You must drink alcohol to participate. The study consists of two confidential online surveys, four weeks apart. Compensation is offered.
Learn more about this study
University of Iowa Human Rights Policy
States that in no aspect of its programs shall there be differences in the treatment of persons because of race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other classification that deprives the person of consideration as an individual.
Patients with disabilities and non-English speakers are welcome. Our clinic provides full-service health care to meet the LGBTQ health care needs.
About the LGBTQ Clinic
Dr. Katie Imborek and Dr. Evelyn Ross-Shapiro are co-directors of our LGBTQ clinic. Learn more about the LGBTQ clinic how it began in this video:
Panopto Url
Our LGBTQ Medical Services Include:
Chronic disease management, including: Anxiety
Depression
Contraceptive management
Gender-affirming voice services
Gynecological services, including: Breast exams
Pelvic exams
Menopause care
Obstetric care
HIV testing and prevention
Hormone therapy (for patients ages 18 years and older)
Immunizations
Post-surgical care for those who have undergone gender affirming surgery
Routine physical exams and wellness
Same-day urgent care visits
Sexually transmitted infection (STI) testing and treatment
Please note that current Iowa law prohibits certain gender affirming care for patients under the age of 18. We provide services in compliance with applicable law.
Sidebar content
In this section
Insurance/Billing Information
We submit insurance claims to Medicare, Medicaid, and most common commercial insurance providers. One of our staff members facilitates the care of uninsured patients or those with insurance and/or financial concerns.
Clinical Social Work Services
Financial Assistance Resources
Patient Rights and Responsibilities
Want to help us improve care for LGBTQ patients?
Contributions to the LGBTQ Clinic Support Fund are used whenever or wherever the need is greatest, all with the aim of improving the access and quality of care for our patients and their families.
LGBTQ Clinic Support Fund
Our Care Team
Filter by:
&times;
Provider Type
&times;
Region
Or
Show all 0 providers
Not sure which Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Clinic provider is right for you?
When you call 1-800-777-8442 we'll help you find a provider who meets your needs.
Call 1-800-777-8442
Nurses
Alex Shulista, RN (Internal Medicine)
Bridgette Hintermeister, RN (Family Medicine)
Hannah Ringsdorf, RN (Family Medicine)
Jamie Edel, RN (Internal Medicine)
Locations and Offices
Filter by:
&times;
Region
Related Health Topics
Browse More
Preventing Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) with Doxy-PEP
March 24, 2026
Learn how Doxy-PEP can help reduce the risk of certain sexually transmitted infections after exposure, who may benefit, and how it works.
Sexually Transmitted Infections
March 24, 2026
Get expert information on sexually transmitted infections, including symptoms, testing, treatment, and prevention from University of Iowa Health Care.
Patient Stories
Gender-affirming surgery completes Lori’s journey to her true self
June 16, 2020
Lori completed her transition at the UI Health Care LGBTQ Clinic, the only place in Iowa that could perform the procedure she needed.
Related News
Browse More
University of Iowa Health Care earns "LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality High Performer" Designation
June 17, 2024
University of Iowa Health Care has been named an “LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality High Performer” by the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation, part of th...
Imborek discusses COVID-19&#039;s impact on LGBTQ Iowans
September 18, 2020
Katie Imborek, MD, sat down with One Iowa to talk about COVID-19 and how to protect yourself and others against the virus.
Educational Resources
Preparing for gender-affirming genital surgery
Sexual function resources
Vaginal dilator
LGBTQ resources
Information for mental health providers of transgender patients
Resources for families and allies of LGBTQ individuals
Information for intersex individuals
Information for questioning individuals
Information for queer individuals
Information for transgender individuals
Information for gay and bisexual individuals
Information for lesbian and bisexual individuals
Show more