Skip to main content
Statement on passage of House Bill 377, banning gender-affirming hormone therapy for minors in New Hampshire
August 5th, 2025
As New Hampshire’s only academic, non-profit health system, Dartmouth Health and Dartmouth Health Children’s remain committed to helping all children and adolescents lead their healthiest, happiest lives. Legislation that restricts or prohibits our clinicians from delivering specific care undermines this goal and prevents parents and caregivers from seeking the care they feel is best for their children and adolescents.
We will continue to provide world-class, comprehensive care for our patients, while remaining compliant with state and federal laws. Under this new law in New Hampshire, established minor patients may continue hormone therapies already prescribed by their clinicians with the approval of their parents. Gender affirming care encompasses much more than hormonal therapies and surgeries, so patients are still able to seek the expertise of our Pediatric and Adolescent Transgender Program .
As we navigate these uncertainties going forward, we will work directly with our patients, families, clinicians, professional societies, and the transgender community on how we can best support their needs. While legal constraints may limit the scope of care we can provide, our commitment to this patient population remains as steadfast as ever.
About Dartmouth Health
Dartmouth Health , New Hampshire’s only academic health system and largest private employer, serves patients across New England. Dartmouth Health provides access to more than 2,300 providers in nearly every area of medicine, delivering care at its flagship hospital, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center (DHMC) in Lebanon, NH. Its network of hospitals, outpatient centers, clinics and home care facilities, spans a broad geographical area. Year after year, DHMC is named the #1 hospital in New Hampshire by U.S. News & World Report , and is consistently recognized for high performance in numerous clinical specialties and procedures. Dartmouth Health includes Dartmouth Cancer Center, northern New England’s only National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer Centers and one of less than than 60 total nationally ; Dartmouth Health Children’s, which includes the state’s only children’s hospital, the Golisano Children's Hospital at Dartmouth Health, and more than 20 locations around the region; eight member hospitals in Lebanon, Keene, Claremont, Hampstead, and New London, NH, and Windsor and Bennington, VT; Dartmouth Health Home Care; Dartmouth Health Connected Care Center for Telehealth, serving patients as far away as Texas; and more than 30 primary and multi-specialty clinics across New Hampshire and Vermont. Through its partnership with Dartmouth College, Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine and the White River Junction VA Medical Center, Dartmouth Health trains nearly 400 medical residents and fellows annually and performs cutting-edge research and clinical trials with international impact. Dartmouth Health and its more than 16,000 employees are committed to serving the healthcare needs of everyone in the communities it serves and to providing every patient with exceptional, state-of-the-art, personalized care. Learn more at dartmouth-health.org .
About Dartmouth Health Children&#039;s
Dartmouth Health Children’s is the most comprehensive pediatric healthcare system in the region and the first integrative medicine children’s health system in the country. Dartmouth Health Children’s is fully integrated in Dartmouth Health and anchored in Lebanon, NH, by Dartmouth Health’s Golisano Children’s Hospital (also a member of the nationwide Golisano Children’s Alliance): home of the highest acuity neonatal intensive care unit and only pediatric intensive care unit in New Hampshire, along with the only adolescent medical-psychiatry unit in northern New England. Through a unique partnership with the state of New Hampshire at Hampstead Hospital, Dartmouth Health Children’s also provides the state’s only inpatient psychiatric care for children and adolescents. Dartmouth Health Children’s advances knowledge through groundbreaking research and education as the primary pediatric partner of the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth and delivers the best patient- and family-centered care for infants, children, and adolescents in a range of settings across New Hampshire and Vermont. Outpatient specialty visits and same-day surgery services are available at Dartmouth Hitchcock Clinics in Manchester, NH, with pediatric primary care at nearly every Dartmouth Health member location.