Skip Header to Content
Transgender ID Project
Home » Transgender ID Project
Transgender ID Project
Free resources for transgender people living in New England (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, or Vermont) seeking to update their legal name and gender on federal and state documents.
Fill out the intake form.
Self-Directed Guides
In most cases, you do not need to work with a lawyer to update your name or gender marker on ID documents and can typically update these documents fairly easily on your own.
Visit our Quick Reference Guides for help updating the following documents:
Legal name change
Social Security card
Passport
Driver’s license/state-issued identification card
Birth certificate
Resource: Quick reference guides to change your ID documents in New England
This is a joint project of GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD Law), Ropes & Gray LLP, Goodwin, Shipman & Goodwin LLP, and Pierce Atwood LLP.
English
Español de México
Português
简体中文
香港中文
Français
Tiếng Việt
العربية
Polski
Русский
Deutsch
Kreyòl Ayisyen
English
Your vote matters! Register, update your information, preview your ballot, and find your polling location at vote.org today.
X
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings .
Accept
Settings
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognizing you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
To learn more, visit our privacy policy .
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Settings