top of page
No Insurance?
We've 'opened our arms' to patients with no coverage, with our new membership program .
View Our Plans
Care Locations & Hours
805 E. River Pl. Jackson, MS 39202
8am - 5pm Monday - Wednesday
8am - 7pm Thursday,
8am - 1pm Friday
1711 Hardy St. Hattiesburg, MS 39401
8am - 5pm Monday - Friday
(601) 582 - 0031
(601) 500 - 7660
Book Now
Book Now
Black Nurse talking to a patient via telehealth.png
Membership Program
The Open Arms Membership Program offers affordable, personalized primary care with unlimited telehealth, in-person visits, wellness support, and discounted services&mdash;all without the need for insurance.
Learn More
Autonomic Testing
Autonomic testing is a quick, non-invasive procedure that measures how your body's automatic systems&mdash;like heart rate, blood pressure, and sweat response&mdash;are functioning to detect early signs of health issues.
Read More
Get PrEP Online
Q Care Plus Partners with Open Arms to offer online PrEP and doxy-PEP services and prescriptions
Start Now!
Taking care of your health
Health Plans
We Accept
Open Arms accepts most insurances as well as offers sliding scale fees for our services for those with no insurance.
> Read More
Mississippi's Partner in Family Healthcare.
Open Arms Healthcare Center is a trusted, patient-centered clinic offering high-quality preventive, clinical, and behavioral health services to individuals and families across Mississippi &mdash; with a strong focus on accessibility, affordability, and compassionate care.
Membership Plans
The Open Arms Membership Program offers affordable, preventive, and personalized healthcare access to individuals seeking high-quality, community-centered care. Each tier provides a tailored package of services with increasing benefits designed to meet the needs of many patient populations.
The Open Arm Policy
Open Arms Healthcare Center is committed to delivering affordable, high-quality healthcare in a welcoming and respectful environment.
We focus on creating an environment where individuals and families feel supported at every step of their health journey.
Javier M.
"I drove 3.25 hrs just to come here. Very great experience, day to go there September, 21, 2021 and my doctor and everyone was just very caring, and I love the way how everything was in the same building. I'm just happy that now my dreams can come true of me being happy and love myself more.
Thanks everyone."
Carl C.
"The staff were very helpful and insightful. Very comfortable environment all my needs were met. I have a bit of a fear of doctors but this experience made things much better.!"
Angelica A.
Such a great establishment! From the receptionist to the medical staff..everyone was prompt, attentive, and professional! :)
bottom of page