An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Here's how you know
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government
organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS
A lock icon or https:// means you've safely connected
to the official website. Share sensitive information
only on official, secure websites.
This page, Bulletin 2021-11; Prohibited Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Gender Dysphoria Including Medically Necessary Gender Affirming Care and Related Services; Issued September 9, 2021, is
offered by
Division of Insurance
Show more
News
News
Bulletin 2021-11; Prohibited Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Gender Dysphoria Including Medically Necessary Gender Affirming Care and Related Services; Issued September 9, 2021
9/09/2021
Division of Insurance
Bulletin 2021-11; Prohibited Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Gender Dysphoria Including Medically Necessary Gender Affirming Care and Related Services; Issued September 9, 2021
Division of Insurance
The primary mission of the Division of Insurance (DOI) is to monitor the solvency of its licensees in order to promote a healthy, responsive and willing marketplace for consumers who purchase insurance products. Protection of consumer interests is of prime importance to the Division and is safeguarded by providing accurate and unbiased information so consumers may make informed decisions and by intervening on behalf of consumers who believe they have been victimized by unfair business practices.
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
Yes
No
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
How can we improve the page? *
Please do not include personal or contact information.
You will not get a response
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact the Division of Insurance . Please limit your input to 500 characters.
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Division of Insurance .
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Division of Insurance .
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
Feedback