Skip to main content
X
close
Find Immigration Legal Help
Federal changes to Medical Assistance (MA) in MN are coming soon. Changes based on immigration status start on October 1, 2026 . Get more info about all the changes and who is affected .
English
Worried about abuse?
X
Click here to leave this site now .
If you’re in danger, call 911 or Day One Crisis Hotline at 1-866-223-1111.
Find more information about:
Domestic Violence
Harassment
Sexual Violence
Elder Abuse
Child Abuse
Court Fee Waiver - Do it Yourself
Authored By
MN Courts
07/2025
Welcome! This form lets you ask the court for a Fee Waiver.
There are 3 ways to fill out the form:
Use the court’s Guide & File system. It asks you questions and uses your answers to fill out the form. Then you can file your form online.
Use the court’s Fillable Smart Form . This is a pdf that you can fill in on your computer. You can then file the form online or print it out and file it at the courthouse.
Use the court’s regular PDF . You can print the PDF form out and fill in the blanks by hand. Then you can file the filled-out form at the courthouse.
Before you start filling out the form, read the instructions below.
It could take 20-30 minutes to fill out the form. If you are using the Minnesota Guide & File system and you don't have enough time to finish, save your answers by creating an account with Minnesota Guide & File . You can create an account now or any time during the interview.
Note about Fillable Smart Forms
Some Minnesota court forms are “Fillable Smart Forms.” For information and help using Fillable Smart Forms, see Technical Support .
1. About this Fee Waiver
You usually have to pay a fee to file documents in court. If you cannot afford to pay the fee, you can ask the court for a fee waiver. You file your fee waiver when you file your other court documents.
You may be able to get a fee waiver if you fit into 1 of these 4 categories:
You have a free lawyer because of your low income.
You get public assistance.
You have a low income. Your income must be at or below 125% of the federal poverty level.
You can show you do not have enough money to pay the fee and also pay your basic expenses.
Read the Court's Fee Waiver Page for more information.
2. What Information Do You Need?
The kind of information you need depends on which fee waiver category you fit into.
If you have a free lawyer because of your low income, you need your lawyer’s name and the organization your lawyer works or volunteers for.
If you fit in this category this is all the info you need.
If you get public assistance, you need proof that you get public assistance. Proof could be a copy of your EBT card, a statement of benefits, a benefits awards letter, a cancelled check from an agency, or other things that show the court you get public assistance.
If you fit in this category this is all the info you need.
If you have a low income below 125% of the federal poverty level , you need:
Information about the people in your household (their names, ages, and relationship to you)
Information about your income and the income of anyone else in your household. You need the gross income amount (before taxes are taken out).
If you fit in this category, this is all the info you need.
If you don’t have enough money for the court fees AND your basic expenses, you need:
The income information listed in #3 above
Information about your monthly expenses
Information about your debts
Information about your assets (checking and savings accounts, cars, your house, or other property you own)
Any additional explanation of why you can’t afford the court fees
3. What Does Your Computer Need?
If you are at a library, you can skip this step of instructions. Public computers already have these programs installed. If you are using your own computer, make sure your computer has Microsoft Word.
(Note: Microsoft Word Pad is not the same as Microsoft Word and will not work with this program.)
Get Started!
Start the interview by visiting the Court Fee Waiver interview on Minnesota Guide & File. You will be taken to a new website.
Once on Minnesota Guide & File, choose:
Request for Fee Waiver
Start the Interview!
Legal Services Corporation
LSC's support for this website is limited to those activities that are consistent with LSC restrictions.
Back to Table of Contents
Quick Exit