Application for License/Permit
Department of Motor Vehicles DMV.Vermont.Gov/802.828.2000
License Type (check one)
☐ Driver’s License 2 Year (OPR)
☐ Driver’s License 4 Year (OPR)
☐ Junior Driver’s License (JUN)
☐ Learner Permit (LRN)
Credential Format (check one)
☐ Real ID Compliant
☐ Non-Real ID Compliant
☐ Enhanced (EDL)
Application Reason
☐ Original ☐ Renewal ☐ Replacement
☐ Transfer from Out of State
☐ Add/Remove Endorsement(s):
☐ Address or Name Change
Previous Licensing Information
Do you now have, or did you ever have a Vermont:
Driver License? ☐ Yes ☐ No Learner Permit? ☐ Yes ☐ No Non-Driver ID Card? ☐ Yes ☐ No
If “Yes”, enter the identification number as it appears on the credential:
Do you have a driver license from another state, D.C., or Canada, valid or expired within the past 3 years? ☐ Yes ☐ No
If “Yes”, where was it issued? Date Expires:
License Number: License Type:
Personal Identification Details
First Name:
Middle Name:
Last Name:
Place of Birth (Country/State/City):
Date of Birth: Social Security Number*:
Address & Personal Details
Mailing address:
Zip Code: City/Town: State:
Update my mailing address for my vehicle records as well (primary owners only): ☐ Yes ☐ No
Address of Residence:
Zip Code: City/Town: State:
Update my address of residence for my vehicle records as well (primary owners only): ☐ Yes ☐ No
Email: Phone Number:
Gender: ☐ Female ☐ Male ☐ Other Eye color: Height: Weight:
VL-021-04/26-IL
*The disclosure of your social security or federal identification number is mandatory, is solicited by the authority granted by 42 U.S.C. § §405(c)(2)(C) and/or 666(a)(13) and will be
used by the Department of Motor Vehicles in the administration of motor vehicle, tax and child support laws, to identify individuals affected by such laws. If you are applying for a
Non-Real ID; not registering to vote; and presenting a letter of ineligibility for a Social Security Number, you may leave this field blank.
Medical, Endorsement & Certifications
Do you need glasses or contact lenses when driving?  Yes  No
Do you have any physical or mental impairment that may affect your ability to drive?  Yes  No
(Excluding diabetes that is not dependent on insulin) If 'YES', you will be required to submit a Universal Medical Evaluation VS-113.
Are you a veteran of the US Military and want “VETERAN” printed on your License?  Yes  No
If so, you must fill out the Vermont Certificate of Veteran Status VG-168 unless you have previously submitted it.
If your License contains a school bus endorsement, do you wish to keep it?  Yes  No  N/A
(Additional testing and documentation required)
If your License contains a motorcycle endorsement, do you wish to keep it ($4 additional per year)?  Yes  No  N/A
Do you wish to be registered as an organ & tissue donor?  Yes  No
Do you certify that you are a Vermont Resident as defined by 23 VSA §4?  Yes  No
Real ID, EDL & Voter Registration:
You may skip this question if you are applying for a Non-Real ID & are not registering to vote.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?  Yes  No  N/A
If you are NOT a U.S. Citizen, do you have proof of legal presence?  Yes  No  N/A
Name, Address or Other Changes:
If an address change is required for voter registration, complete the voter registration section below.
Has your name changed?  Yes  No
Has your mailing address changed?  Yes  No
Has the physical address changed?  Yes  No
Other Change(s):  Yes  No
If applicable, list all former names exactly as they appeared on your previous licenses:
You will be registered to vote unless you decline to register below. By signing and submitting this application, you are
authorizing the Department of Motor Vehicles to transmit this application to the Secretary of State for voter registration
purposes. YOU MAY DECLINE TO REGISTER. Both the office through which you submit this application and your decision of
whether or not to register will remain confidential and will be used for voter registration purposes only. In order to be
registered to vote, you must:
1. be a U.S. citizen;
2. be a resident of Vermont;
3. have taken the voter’s oath; and
4. be 18 years of age or older.
Any person meeting the requirements of (1)-(3) who will be 18 years of age on or before the date of a general election may
register and vote in the primary election immediately preceding that general election. Failure to decline to register is an
attestation that you meet the requirements to vote. If you are voting for the first time in Vermont, you must take the
VOTER’S OATH: You solemnly swear (or affirm) that whenever you give your vote or suffrage, touching any matter that
concerns the State of Vermont, you will do it so as in your conscience you shall judge will most conduce to the best good
of the same, as established by the Constitution without fear or favor of any person.
By signing below, you can attest for yourself that you have taken the Oath. You can also have anyone over 18 attest that
you have taken the oath. If your address has changed, list the address where you were last registered to vote. (Do not
complete unless currently registered to vote at a previous address).
Last Registered Voting Address:
 Do NOT register me to vote OR update my voter registration. I decline to register to vote, or I do not meet all
the eligibility requirements.
I hereby affirm, under penalty of perjury of the laws of the
State of Vermont, that the information on this form is true
and correct. This declaration is made under penalties of 23
V.S.A. § 202 & § 4124. Submission of a false voter
registration application is subject to the penalties of
perjury as provided in 17 V.S.A. § 2011, 13 V.S.A. § 2901,
and 52 U.S.C. § 20511
Signature Date:
Signature of Parent or Guardian (if the applicant is under
18). I hereby consent to the issuance of the license/permit.
Junior Driver’s License: I certify my son/daughter has
received at least 40 additional hours of practice behind the
wheel, with at least 10 being nighttime driving.
 Parent  Legal Guardian
Signature Date:
VL-021-04/26-IL
123 VSA §4 "Resident"…means any person living in the State who intends to make the State his or her principal place of domicile either permanently or for an indefinite number of
years. Without limiting the class of nonresidents under the provisions of this subdivision, persons who live in the State for a particular purpose involving a defined period of time,
including students, migrant workers employed in seasonal occupations, and persons employed under a contract with a fixed term, are not residents for purposes of this title
only….
Instructions
Please read these instructions carefully before completing the application.
Available license types:
• Real ID: A Real ID license meets Federal standards for issuance. Real ID is required to fly on commercial aircraft and access certain federally
controlled facilities (federal courts, federal buildings, military bases).
• Non-Real ID: A Non-Real ID is marked “Not for Real-ID Purposes” and is NOT Real ID compliant. Issuance does not require proof of legal presence
or US citizenship. Proof of identity and residence is required.
• Enhanced Driver’s License (EDL): An EDL is a Real ID compliant card with the added benefit of being a convenient border crossing document for
U.S. citizens returning home from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, or Bermuda by land or sea. Must be a Vermont resident AND U.S. Citizen.
Required Documents
New applicants, renewals of Non-Real ID Credentials, and customers making changes to name, date of birth, place of birth, or SSN must present the required
documents from these four categories in person.
1. Identity and date of birth - Must provide one of the following:
• Valid, unexpired passport, or birth certificate. If the name on the
passport or birth certificate is different than what will be on your
credential you will need a linking document (a certified record of
the applicant's birth, marriage certificate, adoption certificate, or
divorce decree, including a translation if necessary). To note,
linking documents cannot be used without a passport or birth
certificate to establish identity.
• Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) issued by the U.S.
Department of State (Form FS-240, DS-1350, or FS-545)
• Valid consular identification document issued by the government
of Mexico, Guatemala (or any other government with comparable
security standards and protocols, as determined by the
Commissioner)
• Valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551)
• Certificate of Naturalization issued by DHS
(Form N-550 or Form N-570)
• Certificate of Citizenship (Form N-560 or Form N-561) issued by
DHS
• Real ID Driver’s License or Identification Card issued in compliance
with the standards established by 6 CFR part 37
2. Social Security Information - You must present your Social Security card or a letter from the Social Security Administration indicating the ineligibility
to receive a Social Security number (SSN). If your Social Security card is unavailable, one of the following forms may be used: W-2 form, SSA-1099
form, or pay stub showing name and SSN (minimum of last four digits) (Your name must verify with Social Security Administration). If there have
been multiple changes to your name, you must provide documentation to prove the continuity of the names. For example, marriage or civil union
certificate (a certified copy issued by town/city), marriage or civil union dissolution, or probate court name change document.)
3. Vermont residency1 and current residential address - You must present two documents with your name and current Vermont residential address that
demonstrate residency in the state of Vermont.
Examples include:
• Utility bill (must list service address)
• Property tax bill with a physical location
• Signed lease agreement
• Homeowners/renters insurance (policy/proof of claim)
• Educational institution transcript/report card/enrollment
confirmation
• Federal tax document (W-2, 1099)
• State tax document (IN-111)
• Medical health receipt or bill (with current name and Vermont
street address including city/town) (No P.O. Boxes)
• Piece of mail with current name and Vermont street address
including city/town (no P.O. Boxes) (can only use for one
document for REAL ID)
4. Lawful status in the United States (Only required for Real ID & EDL) - In most cases, the documents required for proof of identity and date of birth
will also establish lawful status in the United States. Foreign nationals must provide a passport and visa, alien registration receipt card (green card),
or other proof of legal presence for inspection and copying.
Enhanced Driver’s License (EDL)
In addition to the above documents, an EDL requires proof of US Citizenship.
• Original certified birth certificate issued by a government unit in
the U.S. or U.S. territory.
• Valid, unexpired U.S. passport or passport card.
• Certificate of Citizenship (N-560 or N-561). Certificate of
Naturalization (N-550, N-570, or N-578).
• Consular Report of Birth Abroad issued by the U.S. Department of
State (FS-240, DS-1350, or FS-545).
Fees (as of January 1, 2024)
Driver’s License, Real ID & Non-Real ID, EDL, & Permit Fees
• Real ID/Non-Real ID, 2 Year - $39.00 or 4 Year - $62.00
• Replacement - $24.00
• Enhanced Driver's License (Additional) - $36.00
• Junior Driver's License - $39.00
• Learner's Permit - $24.00
Motorcycle
• Motorcycle Endorsement - $4.00 (per year)
License Exam fees
• Driver's License, Road Test - $23.00
• Learner Permit, Knowledge Test - $39.00
Register to Vote
You will be registered to vote unless you decline. You only need to take the Voter’s Oath once. If you were previously registered to vote in Vermont, you have
already taken the Voter’s Oath. You can attest that you have taken the voter's oath for yourself or a DMV employee can administer the Voter’s Oath to you.
You are not officially registered to vote until your Town or City Clerk reviews your application to be sure that you meet all eligibility requirements. The Clerk
will notify you in writing if your application is approved and notify you of the location of your polling place. If your application is denied, the Clerk will notify
you explaining why you are not eligible and also explain how you can file an appeal to the Board of Civil Authority in your Town or City. If you have questions,
you may call the Office of the Secretary of State at 802.828.2363 or visit sos.vermont.gov/elections/voters.