Skip to content
JusticeHub is Live!
JusticeHub is Legal Aid of North Carolina’s new online portal that makes it easier to get help and stay connected with your case. Through JusticeHub, you can apply for legal help, create a secure account, upload documents, check messages, and track updates—all in one place, anytime.
Apply for Help
Find Help
Disaster Relief
Our Disaster Relief Project helps victims of natural disasters with problems related to housing, benefits, consumer issues, insurance and more.
Housing
We can help with evictions, fair housing, foreclosures, housing discrimination, maintenance disputes and more.
Family Law
We have clinics, articles, videos and other resources to help you with divorce, child custody and other family law services.
Employment
Topics covered here include right to work, discrimination, retaliation, unemployment benefits and more.
Education
We fight for students in the public education system to get access to the quality education they have a right to, and to end the school to prison pipeline.
Government Benefits
Find resources to answer questions and resolve issues with Social Security benefits, Medicaid, Medicare, food stamps and more.
Domestic Violence & Sexual Assault
​We secure court protective orders for survivors and provide other services to help victims lead safe, independent lives.
Consumer Issues
Learn how to protect yourself from fraud and scams. Find information on bankruptcy, credit repair, debt collection and more.
Other
Resources on criminal record expunction, community economic development, disaster relief, and how we help veterans and immigrants.
Apply for Help
By Phone
Apply by Phone
Apply Online
Apply Online
Our online application is an easy-to-follow interactive
interview that walks you step by step through our intake process.
Other Resources
Offices
For local help, find the nearest Legal Aid of North Carolina office
Listen & Learns
Attend our free Self-help Clinics to learn how to handle certain basic legal issues without hiring an attorney
Other Legal Help
There are other legal aid organizations in North Carolina that provide free legal help
Finding Community Resources
Resources and steps you can take to find support in accessing Food, Housing, Disability Benefits, etc.
Rack Cards
View & download our rack cards in English and Spanish
MyFriendBen
Not sure what benefits you may qualify for? MyFriendBen is a free, easy-to-use online tool that helps you identify public benefits, tax credits, and other resources that may be available to support you and your family.
Click Here
Events
Search Events
1
2
3
&hellip;
6
Next »
September 25, 2026, 10:00 am - 2:00 pm
Legal Aid of NC's Disaster Relief Project will be in attendance to offer our disaster relief services and help with legal matters.
Register »
September 25, 2026, 12:00 pm - 2:00 pm
Join our free program to learn about Medicaid rights and eligibility in North Carolina.
Register »
September 26, 2026, 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm
Legal Aid of NC's Disaster Relief Project will be in attendance to offer our disaster relief services and help with legal matters.
Register »
1
2
3
&hellip;
6
Next »
News
New Pro Bono Newsletter! August 2026
The new issue of our pro bono newsletter is hot off the presses! Learn about all&hellip;
New Pro Bono Newsletter! July 2026
The new issue of our pro bono newsletter is hot off the presses! Learn about all&hellip;
New Pro Bono Newsletter! June 2026
The new issue of our pro bono newsletter is hot off the presses! Learn about all&hellip;
Statement from LANC on IOLTA Funding
New Pro Bono Newsletter! May 2026
The new issue of our pro bono newsletter is hot off the presses! Learn about all&hellip;
Legal Aid of North Carolina celebrates 20 years of Centralized Intake Unit, the statewide front door to legal assistance
State Auditor Finds IOLTA Grants Properly Made to Civil Legal Aid Organizations
Raleigh, NC – A recent performance audit of the North Carolina State Bar’s Interest on&hellip;
Where the Road Leads: Kerri Sigler’s Work in Rural North Carolina
New Pro Bono Newsletter! April 2026
The new issue of our pro bono newsletter is hot off the presses! Learn about all&hellip;
New Pro Bono Newsletter! March 2026
The new issue of our pro bono newsletter is hot off the presses! Learn about all&hellip;
Client Grievance Policy and Forms
Need help with a civil legal issue?
Click Here to Apply Online
X