Skip to content
Equality Virginia Statement on Federal Rule Stripping Medicaid Coverage for Transgender Youth Health Care
RICHMOND, VA —Equality Virginia released the following statement in response to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) final rule on Medicaid reimbursement for youth gender affirming care, one of several federal actions this week targeting transgender health care. The new CMS rule impacts youth under the age of 18 for Medicaid and 19 for CHIP—it does not ban care, but does prohibit federal Medicaid and CHIP funding from being used for medically necessary care for transgender youth. The rule is expected to go into effect mid-October, but will likely be challenged in court.
“Every Virginian, regardless of their gender identity, deserves the health care they need and when they need it. Equality Virginia is disappointed by CMS’s new rule and the disproportionate harm it will have on lower-income transgender Virginians and their families. This rule doesn’t change the fact that gender affirming care is best practice, medically necessary care, but it will make it harder for families who rely on Medicaid to access health care supported by every major medical association in this country,” said Narissa Rahaman, Executive Director of Equality Virginia . “Gender affirming care remains legal in Virginia, and our health care providers can and must continue to offer this care. Virginia’s leaders have a choice. They can let federal funding maneuvers dictate whether Virginians can continue accessing health
care, or they can step up. Equality Virginia will be pushing our state and local leaders to make sure
Virginia stands strong against federal interference.”
Media Contact:
Reed Williams
Communications Director
Equality Virginia
press@equalityvirginia.org.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
&#916;