Skip to main content
Infectious Disease Clinic
Testing & Treatment
Our providers are certified in STI/HIV screening, testing, diagnosing, and, in most cases, providing same-day treatment.
In addition to diagnosing and treating common STDs like gonorrhea, chlamydia, and syphilis, we&mdash;unlike many private medical providers&mdash;can diagnose and treat the same-day medical issues like vaginal infections (yeast/BV&mdash;bacterial vaginitis), pelvic inflammatory disease, epididymitis, NSU (non-specific urethritis), and cervicitis.
We provide compassionate and professional services to people of all genders, identities, and sexual orientations.
Links
Location & Hours
Fees
Who Can Get Tested
When to Get Tested
Treatment
Partner Notification
Contact Infectious Disease Clinic
Salt Lake Public Health Center
Phone Number
385-468-4242
Fax: 385-468-4246
Mailing Address 610 South 200 East (ENTER FROM 200 EAST)
Salt Lake City, Utah
Hours
Monday through Friday
CLOSED until 1:00 PM on the 1st and 3rd Wednesday of each month
Location & Hours
The Infectious Disease Clinic is conveniently located downtown in the Salt Lake Public Health Center at 610 South 200 East.
We are located on the EAST side of the building; you must enter our clinic from the sidewalk on 200 East.
Parking is available on the west side of the building, or the clinic is two blocks south of the Library station on the TRAX red line.
Make an appointment by calling 385-468-4242.
We are open Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., with the exception of the first and third Wednesday of each month, when we are closed until 1:00 p.m. (open from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on those days).
We accommodate walk-in patients when possible, but you can decrease your wait time and guarantee being seen by making an appointment.
Please note that children are not allowed in clinic exam rooms, and cannot be left unattended in our lobby.
Our clinical staff is the most experienced in the state, with over 50 years of combined experience in the STD field. We have Spanish speakers on-staff, and we provide translation services for other languages.
Contact Infectious Disease Clinic
Salt Lake Public Health Center
Phone Number
385-468-4242
Fax: 385-468-4246
Mailing Address 610 South 200 East (ENTER FROM 200 EAST)
Salt Lake City, Utah
Hours
Monday through Friday
CLOSED until 1:00 PM on the 1st and 3rd Wednesday of each month
TRAX
Office Visit Fees
The clinic office visit fee is $60 for Salt Lake County residents ($80 if you live outside Salt Lake County). If you are testing only for HIV, there is no office visit fee . All other tests will require the office visit fee along with the test fee(s).
We are a PrEP provider, whether you want to start on PrEP or continue with us as your provider.
We are unable to bill health insurance.
Fees for Common Tests
Rapid HIV (same-day results): FREE* to high-risk individuals (while grant funds last)
HIV blood test: $50
Syphilis test (blood or rapid): $40
Chlamydia/Gonorrhea test: $40
( per site: oral, rectal, vaginal, or urine)
Herpes Types 1 & 2 PCR swab test: $80
Herpes Types 1 & 2 Antibody blood test: $60
Trichomoniasis: $55
Mycoplasma: $65 (for symptomatic patients only)
*HIV tests that are court-ordered have a fee of $150 (includes office visit fee). Tests for a sexually oriented business license have a fee of $340 (includes office visit fee).
Call 385-468-4242 for details.
Fees for Other Tests and Services
Hepatitis B Antigen test: $45
Hepatitis B Antibody test: $45
Hepatitis C Antibody test: $50
Genital wart treatment (cryotherapy): $60
DoxyPEP (doxycycline post-exposure prophylaxis): Included in office visit fee (for those eligible)
PrEP Patient Cost
What is PrEP and How Can it Help?
Learn about Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) and access comprehensive resources to better understand its effectiveness in preventing HIV transmission.
Learn More What is PrEP and How Can it Help?
Who Can Get Tested?
Anyone of age 14 or older.
Anyone sexually active.
Anyone with symptoms of an STD.
Anyone who thinks they are at risk for an STD, including HIV.
Anyone who thinks they have been exposed to an STD.
Anyone who would like a routine sexual health screening.
When to Get Tested
We recommend that all sexually active people be screened regularly, even if you don't have symptoms of an STD or don't think you've been exposed.
Recommended STD Screening Frequency
Other things to keep in mind:
You can be infected with an STD without showing any signs or symptoms.
It can take time after exposure for an STD to show up on a test.
Other than the rapid HIV test that offers same-day results, STD test results generally take 7 to 10 days.
For the best time to be tested after exposure, when symptoms usually appear, and how long it takes to get test results, see our STD Testing Chart
Symptoms of an STD
Recommended STD Screening Frequency
STD Testing Chart
Treatment
Bacterial STDs
We can treat bacterial STDs (such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis) with antibiotic therapy. It is extremely important that the patient avoid all sexual contact for at least 7 days after beginning treatment.
It is essential that a patient's sexual partners are also treated for the infection in order to avoid a re-exposure and reinfection. If a patient is treated, but his or her partner is not treated, the patient will likely become reinfected with the STD almost immediately.
For patients who wish to remain anonymous but want a partner to know they have been exposed and need to be evaluated, we offer an anonymous partner notification service to anyone who tests positive for chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, or HIV.
Some patients may be eligible for DoxyPEP (doxycycline post-exposure prophylaxis); talk to us at your visit to determine if it's right for you.
DoxyPEP
Viral STDs
Treating viral STDs (HIV, herpes, hepatitis, HPV) is more challenging and, for some diseases, can require long-term medication management and additional visits with your regular health care provider. The STD clinic does offer HPV (genital wart) treatment on-site for a fee.
Partner Notification
If a patient tests positive for chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, or HIV, they may choose to contact their partner(s) directly and refer them to the Infectious Disease Clinic for low-cost testing and treatment.
But if a patient wishes to remain anonymous but wants their partner(s) to know they have been exposed and need to be evaluated, our partner notification service will contact the partner(s) and encourage them to visit the Infetious Disease Clinic for evaluation.
We ensure anonymity for all patients; if we contact the partner(s) of anyone diagnosed with an STD, we are legally and ethically prohibited from providing any information about the original patient that referred us. We take this responsibility very seriously and our disease investigators receive extensive training on how to protect our patients' personal information.
Partner notification is available for all cases of chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and HIV diagnosed anywhere in Salt Lake County, including at clinics besides ours.