Show Your Rainbow all year long! Shop our Pride collection today!
Show Your Rainbow all year long! Shop our Pride collection today!
About Us
Overview
About Us
Our Impact
Our People
Board of Directors
Financial Data
Careers
Our Work
Safe Schools
Health Equity
Transgender Equality
Parenting with Pride
Public Policy
Pride at the Capitol
Elections
Equality Means Business
HIV Advocacy
Honor Them With Action
Ways to Give
Get Involved
Overview
Action Center
Sign Up for Updates
Volunteer
Share Your Story
Attend Events
Newsroom
Overview
Visit Newsroom
News Stories
Press Releases
Statements
SEARCH
Search
Privacy Policy
Transgender Equality
Transgender Equality seeks to create a Florida where all trans, nonbinary, and intersex individuals can live safely and have access to the necessary care for them to have the best quality of life.
Connect with Us
By the Numbers
0
Transgender Floridians and allies joined the 2026 Let Us Live March
0
Florida transgender leaders collaborated at the 2026 Voices for Change convening
0
Organizations have joined the Let Us Live Movement coalition
Sign up for Updates
Stay up-to-date with our latest news and events.
Contact Information
E-Mail Address
ZIP Code
(Optional)
Your donation will be securely processed.
Our Vision in Action
Our vision is to create a longstanding,​ community-driven, ecosystem that allows​ intersecting organizations and leaders to​ pour into the development and protection of​ the ​transgender and nonbinary community.
Our Transgender Equality department was​ launched with three broad objectives:
To build and grow 5 core pillars to support​ the ​transgender community: community​ education, information ​and resource sharing,​ healthcare, funding, and housi​ng.
To connect, uplift and assist ​trans-led​ organizations to reach their communities,​ achieve their goals, and provide a platform​ to share their stories.​
To fight against anti-​trans policy and​ protect the rights of ​transgender and​ nonbinary individuals
By fostering statewide collaboration and engaging in​ public action, we strive to amplify ​trans voices, combat​ misinformation, and advocate for lasting protections.​ We achieve this through grassroots eﬀorts and events​ such as:
The Florida Voices for Change​ convening is our statewide approach​ to bringing key Transgender leaders together to discuss​ the state of the ​trans community in Florida. During this​ annual convening, we share successful campaigns and​ initiatives, collaborate with other Trans-led organizations​ to build trust, and develop actionable plans to improve​ the quality of life for ​transgender Floridians.
Each year​, we organize the Let​ Us Live March , bringing together​ transgender individuals and allies​ from across Florida to the State Capitol to highlight the​ urgent need for safety, dignity, and healthcare access​ for all ​transgender people. By gathering​ trans people​ and allies at the Capitol, the march connects the fight​ against stigma and misinformation with broader eﬀorts ​to secure protections and aﬃrming healthcare.
We focus our eﬀorts on ensuring​ transgender leaders across Florida​ are well supported, resourced,​ and connected. By empowering​ our ​transgender leaders,​ who are the experts in their​ communities, we know that​ all ​transgender Floridians​ will have better access​ to the supports that​ are necessary to​ thrive, including​ ​safety, housing,​ employment, and​ healthcare.
Support Equality Florida
35
50
100
OTHER
MEET THE EXPERT
Angelique Godwin, M.Psych.
Director of Transgender Equality
Angelique is an Afro-Latina trans woman, Director of Transgender Equality at Equality Florida and youth mental health advocate. She works closely with children and youth, traveling to schools and colleges to teach students how to manage anxiety, recognize triggers, and build healthy communication skills.
She is the lead organizer of the historic Drag Queen March, founder of Florida’s first statewide trans march, “Let Us Live,” and creator of FL Voices for Change, the first statewide convening of trans-led organizations. Through her advocacy, mentorship, and leadership, she creates safe, affirming spaces for young people while advancing policies that improve the lives of trans, nonbinary, and intersex youth across Florida.
“Be undeniable. That’s how you make change—even if they don’t like you, make sure they never forget you.”
View Bio Contact
Resources
Transgender Equality Brochure
View
CSE’s Trans Youth Emergency Project
View
Top Transgender Equality Stories
Visit Newsroom
Statement
Equality Florida Responds To U.S. Supreme Court Rulings On Trans Sports Ban Cases
Today, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld state laws banning transgender students from participating on school sports teams that align with their gender identity.
Story
A Conversation with Ashley Figueroa: Transgender Day of Visibility Special
Press Release
Legislation Filed to Restore Freedom in Education, Healthcare
Story
Resistance Report Week 1: Attacks On Citizen-Led Amendments