Skip to main content
Name change
Content_Area1
How to apply
Motorcycle
Documentation requirements
Lost or stolen
Impaired driving (OWI)
Suspended or revoked
Occupational license
New residents
Driver license/ID cards
Commercial license
Teen drivers
Vehicles
Content_Area2
Driver license, commercial driver license (CDL) or identification card
Your legal name must appear on your driver license or identification (ID) card. If you change your name, follow these steps to obtain a replacement driver license or ID card with your new, legal name&#58;
First, change your name with the Social Security Administration (SSA)
Present identification and proof of name change documents to SSA
Allow 48 hours for SSA to process your name change so
DMV can verify your correct name ;
Visit a
DMV customer service center to get a replacement driver license or ID card and&#58;
Complete form
MV3001 for a driver license
MV3004 for an ID card
Provide DMV with
proof of identity and
proof of name change
You may also need to provide
proof of name and date of birth ,
proof of residency and
proof of legal presence
Pay the required
fee
You must surrender your current driver license or ID card when requesting a name change
You will receive a receipt that is valid identification until your card arrives in the mail within 7-10 business days.
Certificate of title
Changing your name on your driver license or ID card changes your name on DMV’s base record for you. It is not mandatory that you obtain a corrected title, Confirmation of Ownership* or registration documents with your new name. When DMV issues a subsequent title, Confirmation of Ownership or registration to you, it will reflect your new name.
If you want title, Confirmation of Ownership or registration document to reflect your new name before renewal, you will need to mail in or bring in your current title or confirmation of ownership. There is no charge by mail.
Note&#58; State law requires DMV to deliver title to the lien holder (lender). Vehicle owners will receive a *Confirmation of Ownership document in place of the title that is sent to the lien holder (lender).
If you have a lien on your vehicle, check
Lien look up and contact the lien holder to obtain the title.
Content_Area3
Questions?
Email Wisconsin DMV email service
Back to top button