Skip to Content
Skip to Chat
You are about to Logout
&times;
Are you sure you want to log out of your account? If you do want to logout, please click Logout.
Cancel
Logout
Gender Change
Sex Amendment to Reflect Gender Change
How Do I Request an Amendment to the Sex Designator on a Birth Certificate?
If you would like to request an amendment to the sex designator on your birth certificate, you must send the following documents to the Vital Records Office at the Department of Public Health, 410 Capitol Avenue, MS #11VRS, Hartford, Connecticut 06106.
A certified copy of a court order granting your legal name change, if you would like your amended birth certificate to reflect a new name;
A photocopy of a valid, government issued photo identification;
A notarized affidavit from you, signed under penalty of law, requesting a replacement birth certificate be created to reflect that your gender differs from the sex designated on your current birth certificate. If the registrant is a minor, a parent must complete an affidavit.
A notarized affidavit completed by a licensed physician, a licensed physician assistant, a licensed advanced practice registered nurse, or a licensed psychologist, stating that you (or in the case of a minor, your child) have undergone surgical, hormonal or other treatment clinically appropriate for the purpose of gender transition.
Open and print the following instructions and forms to begin the process.
** Print on white paper only! * *
Instructions and Forms for Amending Sex on Birth Certificate
Instructions and Forms for Amending Sex on Birth Certificate &ndash; Minor
How Do I Request an Amendment to the Sex Designator on a Marriage Certificate?
If you would like to request an amendment to the sex designator on your marriage certificate, you must send the following documents to the Vital Records Office at the Department of Public Health, 410 Capitol Avenue, MS #11VRS, Hartford, Connecticut 06106.
A notarized affidavit from you, signed under penalty of law, requesting a replacement marriage certificate be created to reflect that your gender differs from the sex designated on your current marriage certificate . Additionally, the affidavit includes an affirmation that the marriage is legally intac t;
A notarized affidavit from your spouse consenting to a replacement marriage certificate to reflect that the applicant ' s gender differs from the sex designated on the current marriage certificate. Additionally, the affidavit includes an affirmation that the marriage is legally intact ;
A photocopy of a valid, government issued photo identification;
O ne of the following :
A United States passport reflecting the applicant's gender as of the date of the request; OR
An amended birth certificate reflecting the applicant's gender as of the date of the request; OR
A court order reflecting the applicant's gender as of the date of the request; OR
A notarized affidavit completed by a licensed physician, a licensed advanced practice registered nurse, a licensed physician assistant or a licensed psychologist, stating that you have undergone surgical, hormonal, or other treatment clinically appropriate for the purpose of gender transition. ( Affidavit of Health Care Practitioner )
A certified copy of a court order granting your legal name change if you would like your amended marriage certificate to reflect a new name .
Open and print the following instructions and forms to begin the process.
** Print on white paper only! **
Instructions and Forms for Amending Sex on Marriage Certificate
How Much Does it Cost to Amend the Sex Designator on a Birth or Marriage Certificate?
There is no processing fee for amendments.
How Do I Obtain a Certified Copy of the Amended Birth or Marriage Certificate?
To request a certified copy of your amended birth certificate complete and submit the Application to Request a Birth Certificate , along with your photo ID, and payment of $30 per copy. Payment must be in the form of a money order made payable to the &ldquo;Treasurer, State of Connecticut&rdquo;. Credit card payments and personal checks are not accepted.
To request a certified copy of your amended marriage certificate c omplete and submit the Application to Request a Marriage Certificate , a long with your photo ID, and payment of $ 2 0 per copy. Payment must be in the form of a money order made payable to the &ldquo;Treasurer, State of Connecticut&rdquo;. Credit card payments and personal checks are not accepted.
How to Obtain a Record Contact Us
Department of Public Health
410 Capitol Avenue
Hartford, CT 06134