BIRTH COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY
STATE REGISTRAR OF VITAL STATISTICS
APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFIED COPY OF BIRTH CERTIFICATE
Certificates of Birth that occurred in Kentucky since 1911 are on file in this office
Please Print or Type Sections 1 through 13.
BIRTH CERTIFICATE INFORMATION
1. Full Name at Birth First Middle Last
2. Date of Birth Month Day Year Sex Age Last Birthday
3. Place of Birth Kentucky City or Town Kentucky County Name of Hospital
4. Mother’s Maiden
Name
First Middle Last (Maiden)
5. Father’s Name First Middle Last
6. If this child has been adopted, please give
original name if known
First Last
7. What is your relationship to the person whose certificate is being
requested?
Relationship
8. Requestor’s Printed Name First Last
9. Requestor’s Phone Number Phone Number With Area Code
10. Requestor’s Mailing Address Street Address
11. Requestor’s City, State, Zip City, State, Zip
12. Requestor’s Signature
Certificates may also be ordered by the following methods:
In Person: The Office of Vital Statistics is located at 275 East Main Street in Frankfort. Visit our lobby and complete an application for a certified copy of a birth, death,
marriage or divorce certificate from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST), Monday through Friday, excluding official state holidays. Orders received after
3:45 p.m. Eastern time will be processed the next business day.
Internet: Certificates may be ordered on the internet using a credit card (Visa, MasterCard, Discover or American Express) or check. An additional charge card fee will
apply. This is in addition to the fee for each certified copy requested. Certificates requested via internet at this website:
https://www.vitalchek.com/birth-certificates/kentucky/kentucky-office-of-vital-statistics may be returned by overnight courier for an additional shipment fee (if that
record is available).
Telephone: Orders may be placed by telephone using a credit card (Visa, MasterCard, Discover or American Express) or check. An additional processing fee will apply.
This processing fee is in addition to the fee for each certified copy requested. Certificates requested via telephone may be returned by overnight courier for an additional
fee. The telephone number to place your order is (800) 241-8322, choose option 1.
Mail: Orders are accepted by mail, using a check or money order in U.S. dollars drawn on a U.S. bank for payment. It can take up to 30 working days to process your
request from the date payment is posted. Mail application and payment to Vital Statistics, 275 East Main Street 1E-A, Frankfort, KY 40621. The Office of Vital
Statistics telephone number is (502) 564-4212.
Drop Box: The Office of Vital Statistics installed a drop box at the visitor entrance at 275 E. Main St., Frankfort for applications for certified copies of birth, death,
marriage and divorce certificates. Blank applications are provided on the drop box.
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
Volume
Certificate
Year
Date
Searched by
VS-37 Rev 12.20.2023
13. FEES – NON REFUNDABLE
A fee is to be paid for certified copies or records, or for a search of the files or records when
no copy is available. The fee for a certified copy of a birth certificate is $10.00 U.S.
Additional copies are $10.00 U.S. each. Make check or money order payable to “Kentucky
State Treasurer.” This fee is non refundable.
________ Certified Copies @ $10.00 each = $
How many Total payment