Request Legal Assistance
Share this page
Overview
Understanding your rights is the first step to protecting them.
Due to limited resources, we are only able to take on a small number of cases – cases that will have a big impact on a large number of people.
We do not assist in divorce or child custody issues, benefits denials, landlord- tenant disputes, criminal defense at the trial level, wrongful termination, wills, or complaints about lawyers. Please view other legal resources to find help with these requests.
Contact us online
The best way to contact the ACLU of Alaska for legal help is through our online legal request form . This form helps us understand your situation and decide if we can help.
Submit an online legal request form
Please only submit one request at a time. Unfortunately, we receive many requests for assistance, and are unable to respond to every request.
If we think we may be able to help, or need additional information, we will contact you.
You may not receive a response from us. Do not wait to hear back before seeking other legal help, especially if you have deadlines. See here for a list of other legal resources.
Contact us by mail
To submit a written request for assistance from the ACLU of Alaska, you must complete our intake form and send it to the following address:
ACLU of Alaska
P.O. Box 90788
Anchorage, Alaska 99509
Please do not submit original documents, as their safe return cannot be guaranteed.
The ACLU of Alaska does not accept requests for legal assistance in person, by phone, or by email. If you leave a voicemail asking for assistance or to discuss your case, we will not be able to return your call.
Information to include in your request for legal assistance
To assist you with legal information and referrals, the ACLU of Alaska needs the following information submitted with your online form or on the mail-in form:
Your name, mailing address, telephone, and e-mail address (if available).
If you are writing on behalf of another person, please provide the person's name. Also state your relationship to the person and provide any contact information you have for the person.
Please note whether you are presently represented by an attorney in the legal matter.
Briefly describe your legal problem or issue. Please include any relevant dates and give the names of individuals or organizations involved in the matter.
Briefly describe any documentation of the legal matter. If there are relevant documents, please attach copies (not originals) to your letter.
Briefly describe any steps you took to resolve this issue (for instance: filed a grievance, contacted another agency or organization, or went through an appeals process). Please include information on where you filed, what you filed and the result.
Describe your desired outcome or what you would like to have happen concerning the legal issue or matter.
Your gender and race [optional, for statistical purposes only]
The ACLU of Alaska maintains the confidentiality of all information we receive.
Request a training or event
The ACLU of Alaska is committed to helping all Alaskans understand their rights. We provide an array of options for people to know their rights regarding interactions with immigration and law enforcement officials, exercising First Amendment rights to speech and protest, rights while incarcerated, and more. View our online 'Know Your Rights' information here.
The ACLU of Alaska often provides 'Know Your Rights' trainings in-person and virtually to members of the community on various topics. See our upcoming events and trainings here.
If you'd like to request a 'Know Your Rights' presentation by an ACLU of Alaska attorney, please fill out this form.
Report immigration enforcement activities in Alaska
Did you see an immigration enforcement action happen? Report it here.
Other legal resources
If you need help with an issue that the ACLU of Alaska cannot help with, there are a number of other legal resource organizations that may be better situated to provide legal information or assistance:
Publication | Guide
Jan 4, 2026
Alaska Legal Referrals
We've compiled a list of other legal organizations and attorneys in Alaska who you can contact for legal assistance.
Publication | Guide
Jan 2, 2025
Immigration Family Safety Planning Guides
Every family should have a plan in case of an emergency. It is critical for immigrant families to think ahead and set more concrete plans for...
Publication | Guide
Apr 8, 2025
LGBTQIA2S+ Rights
Queer Family Preparation Packet
For the time being, Alaska’s laws and federal law protect LGBTQIA2S+ Alaskans from discrimination. And the ACLU is suing the Trump administration...
Passports and Gender Markers legal request form - ACLU National