LGBTQ Inclusive Healthcare Organizations
Explore Affirming Organizations Near You
LGBTQ-Specific organizations can provide services directly related to the LGBTQ community (gender-affirming services, PreP, and PeP. LGBTQ- Inclusive organizations have providers that can see LGBTQ clients but aren’t necessarily trained in LGBTQ- Specific issues. Inclusion on our website does not warrant or imply any endorsement, recommendation, or outcome. You must fully vet each resource.
Planned Parenthood &#8211; Des Moines – Susan Knapp Health Center
LGBTQ Specific and LGBTQ Inclusive Care
Services provided: Birth Control, HIV Services, Pregnancy Testing and Planning, Sexual and Reproductive Concerns, STI Testing and Treatment, Gender Affirming Care, Vaccines, Preventative Care
Contact: 1-800-230-7526
Unity Point LGBTQ Clinic &#8211; Des Moines
LGBTQ Specific Care and LGBTQ Inclusive Care
UnityPoint Clinic offers individualized health care services in a comfortable and welcoming environment to the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning communities. Safe Zone trained providers will ensure compassion and understanding for all patients.
Request an appointment here
UnityPoint Clinic LGBTQ &#8211; Prairie Parkway
Cedar Falls
The staff at UnityPoint LGBTQ Clinic &#8211; Prarie Parkway has undergone training through the Safe Zone Project to ensure you receive your care in a welcoming environment with a team who strives to deliver quality affirming care with dignity and sensitivity to all our patients.
UCS Healthcare
LGBTQ Specific and LGBTQ Inclusive Care
We provide LGBTQIA+ medical care and specialize in health services, including mental health, substance use disorder treatment, and more.
Contact: 515-280-3860
Downtown Dental
LGBTQ Inclusive Dental Care
Contact: 515-207-6093
University of Iowa LGBTQ Clinic – Iowa City
The University of Iowa LGBTQ clinic offers dedicated health services in a comfortable, caring environment to the gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, gender non-conforming, genderqueer, gender fluid, and anyone who identifies as part of the LGBTQ communities.
Central Iowa VA
Offering medical care, mental health services, and support for LGBTQ veterans, including PreP, hormone replacement therapy, speech therapy, wigs, padded bras, gaffs, binders, packers, STP devices, and more.
LGBTQ Veteran Care Coordinator
COVID Recovery Iowa
The State of Iowa has received federal funding from FEMA to offer free virtual counseling and assistance to those affected, in any way, by COVID-19. For more information, check out their website . If you have additional questions contact: Ash Roberts at aroberts@heartlandfamilyservice.org.
Iowa Health and Human Services&#8217; Care For Yourself Program
The Care for Yourself program has local staff that can help you schedule: clinical breast exams, mammograms, pelvic exams, Pap tests, and tests to check your risk for heart disease. Through the program, eligible LGBTQ Iowans can qualify for free or low-cost healthcare services.
Breast Cancer Screening Services
Cervical Cancer Screening Services
Contact : 1-866-339-7909
Hillcrest Family Services
Sexual Health Services, STI/STD Supplies and Screening, Harm Reduction Supplies, Needle Disposable Boxes, Hepatitis Vaccinations, PrEP referrals, Educational Resources
(563) 513-6123
Love in The Face
Navigating the legal paperwork involved in transition can be an overwhelming task. Love in the Face provides a no-cost step-by-step coaching process that empowers you to complete your legal name and/or gender marker change. Contact Nia Chiaramonte today to schedule a 30-minute consultation to assess your objectives and get your process rolling. Nia will be available to you during your journey, encouraging you as you complete your legal gender-affirming process.
Heartland Surrogacy
Surrogacy support
LGBTQ- Inclusive
info@heartlandsurrogacy.com or 855-995-2229
Des Moines based, serves entire Midwest
ChildServe
LGBTQ- Inclusive Child Care and Services
Locations in Eastern and Central Iowa
www.childserve.org
Prism Therapy Solutions
Affirmative & Inclusive Counseling in Central Iowa
Mental health counseling for folks of all ages within 2SLGBTQIA+ and QTBIPOC communities, designed to help navigate the unique challenges we face daily and establish a strong foundation of self-worth.
Facebook | Instagram
MWI Health &#8211; West Des Moines
MWI Health brings behavioral health, medication management, and Spravato together in one clinic on Woodland Avenue. Help for anxiety, depression, ADHD, and more, with immediate openings for medication management, so you can start right away.
Heart and Solutions
Heart and Solutions is a strength based mental health counseling agency serving Iowa individuals, couples, and families with our team of dedicated therapists and behavioral health intervention specialists.
WPATH Letter Request
Heart and Solutions, LLC is proud to offer a WPATH letter writing service for transgender and gender non-conforming Iowans with gender dysphoria who are seeking gender-affirming medical care. We offer free of charge, single session letter-writing assessments to Iowans who meet the WPATH criteria for receiving a letter of support.
Healthcare
FREE Virtual Training &#8211; LGBTQ+ Patient Interaction Best Practices
14.09.26
VIEW MORE NEWS