Back
Get Help
Housing
Sexual Health
Employment
TransLife Care
Mpox
Back
Mission & Vision
Leadership
Reports
History
Careers
Back
Make a Gift
Guide to Giving
Matching Gifts
Get Involved
Store
Scroll
TransLife Care
TransLife Care (TLC) provides free healthcare and social services to trans, non-binary, or gender expansive individuals. We offer resource drop-in centers across Chicago that provide access to on-site healthcare providers, sexual health screeners, legal counsel, case managers, employment services and more. This gives individuals an immediate response to current needs.
Drop-In Centers
Our Drop-In Centers provide immediate, affirming support for transgender individuals, offering wraparound services delivered by trained and trusted professionals.
TranSafe Drop-In
Central to TransLife Care, the TranSafe drop-in centers provide the first and only comprehensive, one-stop resource for the transgender community in the Midwest.
FREE services for the trans and non-binary community, including:
General support/services
Housing navigation
Legal support
Employment services
Medical referrals
Drop-In Days and Times:
Every Monday: 2pm – 5pm @ 3656 N Halsted, 2nd Floor (Center on Halsted)
Every Wednesday: 3pm – 7pm @ 9 North Cicero (Taskforce Prevention, enter through back entrance)
Every Thursday: 2pm – 5pm @ 1650 W 63rd St
Questions? Please reach out to Kevin Pleasant
Legal Clinic Drop-In
Offered at each drop-in location either in-person or virtually.
If you are trans/non-binary/gender-expansive and in need of legal support, come and join us for:
Name changes
Expungement/sealing
Housing discrimination
Employment discrimination
Public benefits appeals
Legal referrals
Questions? Please call 773-673-9340
TransHousing
Chicago House provides trans-affirming, community-based housing in subsidized rental units across the Chicagoland area. We operate under the Housing First approach which believes a stable home is an essential foundation in reaching and maintaining positive health outcomes and greater well-being.
Through TransHousing, trans, non-binary, or gender-expansive individuals who are experiencing homelessness or housing instability receive housing navigation, and gain access to additional Chicago House wraparound services, including: case management, pharmacy, employment and legal services.
Our goal is to create permanent housing solutions while improving the health and well-being of the individuals we serve.
Learn more about our Housing Services.
TransLegal
The TransLegal program offers clients free and sliding-scale access to legal counsel. Our legal team helps clients navigate a variety of legal challenges, including name changes; expungement and criminal records sealing; employment, public accommodations and housing discrimination; and benefits assistance.
Contact: Elizabeth Ricks at 773.347.7848 .
TransWorks
The TransWorks program supports trans, non-binary, and gender expansive individuals who are currently unemployed or underemployed and seeking new job opportunities through one of our many corporate partners. From employment readiness development to resume development to interview counseling, the TransWorks team works in tandem with our employment department to ensure candidates meet eligibility requirements and land in trans-affirming work environments.
TransHealth
We offer trans-affirming healthcare for trans, non-binary, and gender expansive individuals. Our services are low-barrier and include everything from hormones to routine healthcare and primary care. No appointment is needed to access care through the Chicago House TransHealth programs.
Sexual Health
The TransHealth program also serves transgender individuals who are vulnerable to or living with HIV/AIDS. Whether through the Chicago House mobile screening outreach or via our three community resource drop-in centers, the TransHealth team ensures individuals in need of STI or HIV screening are properly screened and immediately connected to care based on the real-time results. Our rapid response approach eliminates delays for appointments or wait times.
Violence Against the Transgender Community
2024 saw at least 32 transgender and gender-expansive individuals lose their lives to violence motivated by transphobia.
Tee "Lagend Billions" Arnold, 36 | Kita Bee, 46 | Diamond Brigman, 26 | Monique Brooks, 49 | Starr Brown | Shannon Boswell, 30 | Yella Clark, Jr., 45 | Santonio "San" Coleman, 48 | Honee Daniels, 37 | Andrea Doria Dos Passos | Alex Taylor Franco, 21 | &Aacute;frica Parilla Garc&iacute;a, 25 | River Nevaeh Goddard | Dylan Gurley, 20 | Michelle Henry, 25 | Reyna Hernandez, 54 | Righteous TK "Chevy" Hill, 35 | Jazlynn Johnson, 18 | Tai'Vion Lathan, 24 | Pauly Likens, 14 | Meraxes Medina, 24 | Kitty Monroe, 43 | Kassim Omar, 29 | Redd, 25 | Quanesha Shantel, 26 | Kenji Spurgeon, 23 | Brandon "Tayy Dior" Thomas, 17 | Cameron "Cam" Thompson, 18 | Liara Tsai, 35 | Sasha Williams, 36 | Vanity Williams, 34 | Ra'Lasia Wright, 25
Contact our Translife Team
Kevin Pleasant
TransLife Care Program Director
kpleasant@chicagohouse.org
(773) 574-2002
SEND A REQUEST FOR SERVICES