ARC 9622C
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT[761]
Adopted and Filed
Rulemaking related to application for license
The Transportation Department hereby rescinds Chapter 601, “Application for License,” Iowa
Administrative Code, and adopts a new Chapter 601 with the same title.
Legal Authority for Rulemaking
This rulemaking is adopted under the authority provided in Iowa Code sections 307.12(1)“j” and
321.182.
State or Federal Law Implemented
This rulemaking implements, in whole or in part, Iowa Code chapter 17A; Iowa Code section 4.1A
as enacted by 2025 Iowa Acts, Senate File 418; Iowa Code sections 321.13, 321.177, 321.182, 321.184,
321.186, 321.189, 321.196, 321.197 and 321C.1; Article V, the REAL ID Act of 2005 (49 U.S.C.
Section 30301 note) as amended by the REAL ID Modernization Act, H.R. 133, Division U, Title X; and
6 CFR Part 37.
Purpose and Summary
This rulemaking repromulgates Chapter 601 in compliance with Executive Order 10. Chapter 601
complies with Iowa Code section 321.182 and the federal REAL ID Act, which require the Department
to adopt rules regarding the application for a driver’s license and to administer REAL ID driver’s
licenses in compliance with federal regulations. The chapter also implements 2025 Iowa Acts, Senate
File 418, which adds a new definition of “sex” in Iowa Code section 4.1A referring to sex as male
or female as observed or clinically verified at birth and removed the process of obtaining an amended
birth certificate to reflect a change in a person’s sex designation from Iowa Code section 144.23. Due to
these Iowa Code changes, a person will no longer be able to change the sex designation on the person’s
driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification card to reflect a sex designation different than what is
listed on the person’s identity document, thus necessitating the conforming changes to this chapter.
Public Comment and Changes to Rulemaking
Notice of Intended Action for this rulemaking was published in the Iowa Administrative Bulletin on
May 28, 2025, as ARC 9292C. Public hearings were held on the following date:
June 17, 2025
The Department received comments from One Iowa. The comments: opposed the rule change related
to changing the ability to change the person’s sex designation on the driver’s license stating it relies
on a medically inaccurate understanding of sex; asserted that the rule is discriminatory and undermines
the goal of making people easier to identify; stated that under the rule, a person may both legally and
medically be a sex that is not reflected on their license because their actual sex is different than the one
that they were assigned at birth and there are a variety of conditions that can cause someone’s sex to
not be readily apparent at birth; asserted that the rule will lead to conflicting forms of identification;
indicated the belief that the rule will create a parallel process by which those born in neighboring states
are going to have access to more accurate forms of identification than those born in Iowa and urged the
Department to revert to the previous process to allow for more accurate identification.
The Department responded in writing to the commenter, pointing out that the rule is implementing
statute and that under Iowa Code chapter 17A, an administrative rule cannot conflict with statutory
provisions or amend or nullify legislative intent. Accordingly, the Department cannot leave in place in its
rules a process by which a person can amend the sex on their driver’s license to something different than
what is listed on their identity document.
1
•
Changes from the Notice have been made to subrules 601.2(4) and 601.4(7) to remove the term
“designation” since that is not a term that appears in Iowa Code section 321.182 or 321.189 when
referring to an applicant’s sex as listed in the application or on the license.
Adoption of Rulemaking
This rulemaking was adopted by the Department on September 9, 2025.
Fiscal Impact
This rulemaking has no fiscal impact to the State of Iowa.
Jobs Impact
After analysis and review of this rulemaking, no impact on jobs has been found.
Waivers
Any person who believes that the application of the discretionary provisions of this rulemaking
would result in hardship or injustice to that person may petition the Department for a waiver of the
discretionary provisions, if any, pursuant to 761—Chapter 11.
Review by Administrative Rules Review Committee
The Administrative Rules Review Committee, a bipartisan legislative committee which oversees
rulemaking by executive branch agencies, may, on its own motion or on written request by any
individual or group, review this rulemaking at its regular monthly meeting or at a special meeting.
The Committee’s meetings are open to the public, and interested persons may be heard as provided in
Iowa Code section 17A.8(6).
Effective Date
This rulemaking will become effective on November 19, 2025.
The following rulemaking action is adopted:
Item 1. Rescind 761—Chapter 601 and adopt the following new chapter in lieu thereof:
CHAPTER 601
APPLICATION FOR LICENSE
761—601.1(321) Information.
601.1(1) General. In addition to Iowa Code sections 321.182 and 321.196, this chapter
provides information regarding how an applicant can qualify to apply for a driver’s license.
Additional information regarding applications for a commercial driver’s license can be found in
761—Chapter 607.
601.1(2) Definition.
“License” means “driver’s license” as defined in Iowa Code section 321.1(20A) unless the context
otherwise requires.
601.1(3) Documents and location. Applications, forms and information about applying for a
driver’s license are available at any driver’s license service center. Assistance is also available by mail
from the Motor Vehicle Division, Iowa Department of Transportation, P.O. Box 9204, Des Moines,
Iowa 50306-9204; by telephone at 515.239.1837; by email at driver.services@iowadot.us; or on the
department’s website at www.iowadot.gov/mvd/driverslicense.
This rule is intended to implement Iowa Code section 321.182.
761—601.2(321,321C) Application for license. An application for a driver’s license is to include the
following:
2
601.2(1) Name. The applicant’s full legal name is to be given on the application. “Full legal
name” means an individual’s first name(s), middle name(s) and last name(s), without use of initials
or nicknames. Civilian and military titles, initials and nicknames are not to be used on the applicant’s
license or in the applicant’s record. This does not apply where a portion of an individual’s legal name,
whether first, middle or last, consists of a single character, whether followed by a period or not.
601.2(2) Out-of-state verification. Upon application for a driver’s license, the department is to
ascertain whether the applicant has ever held, or is the holder of, a driver’s license issued by any other
state.
a. The department will not issue a driver’s license to the applicant if:
(1) The applicant has held a driver’s license issued by any other state, but the driver’s license
has been suspended by reason, in whole or part, of a violation and if such suspension period has not
terminated.
(2) The applicant has held a driver’s license issued by any other state, but the driver’s license has
been revoked by reason, in whole or part, of a violation and if such revocation has not terminated, except
that after the expiration of one year from the date the license was revoked, the applicant may make
application for a new license if permitted by law. The department may refuse to issue a license to any
such applicant if, after investigation, the department determines that it will not be safe to grant such
applicant the privilege of driving a motor vehicle on the highways.
(3) The applicant is the holder of a driver’s license issued by another state and currently in force
unless the applicant surrenders such license.
b. If the applicant is subject to subparagraph 601.2(2)“a”(2) or has committed an offense or acted
in a manner in another state that in Iowa would be grounds for revocation and it has been more than
one year from the date the license or driving privilege was revoked, the department may issue the
applicant a driver’s license only upon such terms and conditions and subject to such restrictions or
limitations as if the violation had been committed and the revocation imposed in Iowa. The department
will delay licensing or restrict licensing for such period of time that the applicant would be ineligible for
a driving privilege or subject to a restricted driving privilege if the violation had been committed and the
revocation imposed in Iowa.
(1) The department may grant a driving privilege to an applicant who meets all of the following:
1. The applicant has satisfied the same requirements as if the violation had been committed and
the revocation imposed in Iowa.
2. The applicant is otherwise physically and mentally capable of safely operating a motor vehicle.
(2) The department will not assess a civil penalty to the applicant as a condition of licensing under
this subrule.
(3) Pursuant to Iowa Code section 321.13, the department may make further investigation or
request further information necessary to determine whether it is safe to grant the applicant a driving
privilege.
c. The department may verify the applicant’s driving record from another state of record, including
electronically, to assist the department in determining whether it is safe to grant the applicant a license.
601.2(3) Disabilities. The applicant is to indicate and explain any mental or physical disabilities
that might affect the applicant’s ability to operate a motor vehicle safely. The department may make
further inquiries of the applicant or request further information necessary to determine whether it is
safe to grant the applicant a driving privilege, including but not limited to requesting an examination
authorized under Iowa Code section 321.186.
601.2(4) Physical description. The applicant shall provide the applicant’s sex, height to the nearest
inch, weight to the nearest pound and eye color.
601.2(5) Address. The applicant shall provide the applicant’s current residential address and current
mailing address, if different from the applicant’s current residential address. A mailing address for which
a forwarding order with the United States Postal Service is in place is not acceptable. Notwithstanding
anything in subrule 601.2(5), an applicant who is a participant in the “safe at home” address
confidentiality program administered by the Iowa secretary of state may submit a designated address
issued to the applicant by the Iowa secretary of state as the applicant’s residential and mailing address.
3
601.2(6) Signature.
a. The applicant’s signature shall be without qualification and shall contain only the applicant’s
usual signature without any other titles, characters or symbols.
b. The applicant’s signature certifies, under penalty of perjury and pursuant to the laws of the state
of Iowa, that the statements made and information provided in the applicant’s application are true and
correct.
c. The applicant’s signature further certifies that the fee collected and the change returned, if any,
is correct and acknowledges that the applicant is aware of the obligation to notify the department of a
change in mailing address within 30 days of the change.
d. The applicant’s signature will be captured electronically.
601.2(7) Surrender of license and nonoperator’s identification card. An applicant for a driver’s
license shall surrender all other driver’s licenses and nonoperator’s identification cards. This includes
those issued by a state other than Iowa or a foreign jurisdiction unless otherwise provided in a letter
of understanding or other written memorialization of reciprocity or understanding. An applicant who
renews a driver’s license electronically pursuant to 761—subrule 605.25(7) shall destroy the previous
driver’s license upon receipt of the renewed driver’s license.
This rule is intended to implement Iowa Code sections 321.13, 321.177, 321.182, 321.186, 321.196
and 321C.1 and 6 CFR Part 37.
761—601.3(321) Emergency contact information. Pursuant to Iowa Code section 321.197, a person
may voluntarily provide the department with emergency contact information.
601.3(1) Form and submission.
a. Emergency contact information may be provided to the department through any of the following
methods:
(1) By submitting Form 430305 to the department’s address or website listed in subrule 601.1(3) or
by email at emergencyinfo.contact@iowadot.us.
(2) In person at a driver’s license service center.
(3) In person at a county treasurer’s office that issues driver’s licenses under Iowa Code chapter
321M.
b. Submission of emergency contact information is not a condition of issuing, renewing or
replacing a driver’s license.
601.3(2) Modifications.
a. A person may request changes to the person’s emergency contact information by entering those
changes on the department’s website or by submitting Form 430305 to the department using any of the
methods provided in paragraph 601.3(1)“a.”
b. A person may request to be removed as an emergency contact by submitting Form
430306 to the department at the address or website listed in subrule 601.1(3) or by email at
emergencyinfo.contact@iowadot.us.
c. A person who was removed as an emergency contact under paragraph 601.3(2)“b”
will not again be listed as the person’s emergency contact unless the person submits Form
430306 to the department at the address or website listed in subrule 601.1(3) or by email at
emergencyinfo.contact@iowadot.us.
This rule is intended to implement Iowa Code section 321.197.
761—601.4(17A,321) Proofs submitted with application. An applicant for a new Iowa driver’s license
or nonoperator’s identification card, including a person who currently holds a license or card issued by
another state or foreign jurisdiction, shall submit proof of identity, date of birth, social security number,
Iowa residency and current residential address and lawful status in the United States.
601.4(1) Verification of identity and date of birth. To establish identity and date of birth, an
applicant must submit at least one of the following documents. The department may require additional
documentation.
a. A valid, unexpired U.S. passport or U.S. passport card.
4
b. A certified copy of a birth certificate and, if applicable, a certified amended or new birth
certificate showing a change in name or date of birth, filed with a state office of vital statistics or
equivalent agency in the applicant’s state of birth. The birth certificate must bear the issuing authority’s
certification of authenticity. A hospital-issued certificate is not acceptable. As used herein, “state” means
a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American
Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
c. A Consular Report of Birth Abroad issued by the U.S. Department of State (Form FS-240,
DS-1350 or FS-545).
d. A valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551) issued by the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security or U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
e. An unexpired employment authorization document issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security (Form I-766 or Form I-688B).
f. An unexpired foreign passport with a U.S. visa affixed, accompanied by the approved I-94 form
documenting the applicant’s most recent admittance into the United States.
g. A Certificate of Naturalization issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (Form
N-550 or Form N-570).
h. A Certificate of Citizenship (Form N-560 or Form N-561) issued by the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security.
i. A REAL ID driver’s license or identification card as defined in 6 CFR Section 37.3.
j. Such other documents as the U.S. Department of Homeland Security may designate as
acceptable proof of identity and date of birth for REAL ID purposes by notice published in the Federal
Register.
k. A federal release identification card issued by the U.S. Department of Justice or Federal Bureau
of Prisons or an Inmate Descriptor Inquiry, Client Information Inquiry or Offender Snapshot document
issued by the Iowa department of corrections or the United States District Court, Northern and Southern
Districts of Iowa, that contains the applicant’s full legal name and date of birth and is notarized. An
application that includes only a document listed in this paragraph as proof of identity and date of birth
is only eligible for a driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification card marked as not acceptable for
federal purposes pursuant to 6 CFR Part 37.
601.4(2) Verification of social security number.
a. Except as provided in paragraph 601.4(2)“b,” an applicant must provide the applicant’s Social
Security Administration’s account number.
b. An applicant who establishes identity by presenting the identity document listed in paragraph
601.4(1)“f” (unexpired foreign passport with a valid, unexpired U.S. visa affixed and accompanied by
the approved I-94 form documenting the applicant’s most recent admittance into the United States) must
provide the applicant’s social security number or demonstrate non-work authorized status.
601.4(3) Verification of Iowa residency and current residential address.
a. An applicant must present two documents that include the applicant’s name and current Iowa
residential address and that demonstrate residency in the state of Iowa. Acceptable documents are
issued by a person, organization or entity other than the applicant that include the issuer’s name and
address, include the applicant’s name and current residential address and demonstrate residency in the
state of Iowa. Acceptable documents are reasonable, authentic documents capable of verification by the
department.
b. An acceptable address is a street or highway address and not a post office box. In areas where a
number and street name have not been assigned, an address convention used by the U.S. Postal Service
is acceptable. The current residence of a person with more than one dwelling is the dwelling for which
the person claims a homestead tax credit under Iowa Code chapter 425, if applicable.
c. An applicant who is a member of the armed forces and is an Iowa resident stationed in another
state or an applicant who is the spouse or dependent family member residing with a member of the
armed forces that is an Iowa resident stationed in another state may use the applicant’s address in
the state of station as the applicant’s current residential address if the applicant does not maintain an
Iowa residence during the applicant’s deployment outside the state of Iowa. The applicant must provide
5
official documentation confirming the applicant’s residential address in the state of station and that
the applicant is stationed in that state. The applicant’s mailing address may be the applicant’s current
residential address or another address at which the applicant receives mail.
601.4(4) Verification of lawful status in the United States.
a. If an applicant presents one of the identity documents listed under subrule 601.5(1), the
department’s verification of that identity document is satisfactory evidence of lawful status.
b. An applicant who presents only a document listed under paragraph 601.4(1)“e,” “f” or “i”
is not eligible to receive a driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification card marked as REAL ID
compliant unless the applicant also provides one of the other documents listed in subrule 601.4(1) or
another United States Department of Homeland Security-approved document.
601.4(5) Verification of name change. The name listed on the driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card that is issued will be identical to the name listed on the identity document submitted
unless the applicant submits the chain of legal documents necessary to show the legal change of
the applicant’s name from the identity document submitted to the applicant’s current legal name
under paragraph 601.4(5)“a” or “b.” Alternatively, an applicant who is an existing Iowa licensee or
cardholder may confirm the applicant’s current legal name as displayed on the applicant’s license or card
under the provisions of paragraph 601.4(5)“c.” The following documents are acceptable:
a. Court-ordered name change. A court order must contain the applicant’s prior legal name, the
applicant’s court-ordered legal name, and the court’s certification of authenticity. Acceptable court
orders include orders under petition for name change, orders for name change set forth in a decree of
dissolution, and orders for name change set forth in a decree of adoption.
b. Certified copy of marriage certificate. The marriage certificate must be filed with a state office
of vital statistics or equivalent agency in the person’s state or country of marriage. The certificate must
bear the issuing authority’s certification of authenticity. A church, chapel or similarly issued certificate
is not acceptable. As used herein, “state” means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands.
c. Social security records match. The applicant must establish that the applicant’s Social Security
Administration’s account number is issued in the applicant’s current legal name as verified by the
department with the Social Security Online Verification (SSOLV) system in accordance with 6 CFR
Section 37.13(b)(2) effective January 1, 2024.
601.4(6) Verification of change of date of birth. The date of birth listed on the driver’s license
or nonoperator’s identification card that is issued will be identical to the date of birth listed on the
identity document submitted unless the applicant submits a certified amended or new birth certificate
that documents the change of date of birth and complies with paragraph 601.4(1)“b.”
601.4(7) Verification of sex. The sex listed on the driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification
card that is issued will be identical to the sex listed on the identity document submitted.
601.4(8) Exception process. As provided in 6 CFR Section 37.11(h) (REAL ID exceptions process)
effective January 1, 2024, and notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter or 761—Chapter 11
to the contrary, an applicant who, for reasons beyond the applicant’s control, is unable to present a
necessary document under this rule may apply to the department for an exception as provided in this
subrule.
a. To apply for an exception under this rule, an applicant is to submit a written request to the
department at the address or email address listed in subrule 601.1(3) or in person at any driver’s license
service center containing all of the following:
(1) The applicant’s name, address, date of birth and contact information.
(2) Whether the applicant is applying for a driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification card.
(3) A description of the necessary verification of identity and date of birth or verification of name
change documents under this rule that the applicant is unable to provide and the reason why it is beyond
the applicant’s control to provide the document.
(4) Any alternate document or other proof that exists to verify the facts contained in the
missing document, which may include an approved I-94 form documenting the applicant’s most
6
recent admittance into the United States as verified by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
in accordance with 6 CFR Section 37.13 effective January 1, 2024.
(5) Any other information or proof required by the department.
b. The motor vehicle division director or the director’s designee may grant an exception under this
rule if all of the following apply:
(1) The applicant has submitted a written request with all of the required documentation under
paragraph 601.4(8)“a.”
(2) The applicant, as determined by the department, has sufficiently demonstrated that the applicant
is unable to provide a necessary document under this rule due to reasons beyond the applicant’s control.
(3) The application of the subject rule will pose an undue hardship on the applicant, as determined
by the department.
(4) Granting the exception will not prejudice the substantial legal rights of any person, as
determined by the department.
c. The department may place any condition on an exception issued under this rule that the
department finds necessary to carry out the department’s functions.
d. An exception under this subrule does not apply to a required document under subrule 601.4(2).
e. An alternate document accepted under this exception process to satisfy the provisions of subrule
601.4(4) is only allowed if the document demonstrates United States citizenship as required by 6 CFR
Section 37.11(h) effective January 1, 2024.
f. An applicant’s inability to pay for a necessary document under this rule does not meet the
criteria for an exception under this subrule.
g. Nothing in this subrule requires the department to issue a driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card if the applicant is not otherwise eligible. The department reserves the right to modify
or cancel an exception at any time if the department finds that anything in the exception application
or accompanying documentation was based on fraud or misrepresentation by the applicant or if the
modification or cancellation is necessary based on a change in circumstances of the applicant.
h. An applicant whose request for exception under this rule has been denied may contest the
decision in accordance with Iowa Code chapter 17A and 761—Chapter 13. The request for a hearing
may be submitted in writing to the motor vehicle division. The request is to include, as applicable, the
applicant’s name, driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification number, date of birth, complete address
and telephone number. The request is to be submitted within 20 days after the date of the notice of
exception denial.
This rule is intended to implement Iowa Code chapter 17A; Iowa Code section 4.1A as enacted by
2025 Iowa Acts, Senate File 418; Iowa Code sections 321.13, 321.182 and 321.189; the REAL ID Act
of 2005 (49 U.S.C. Section 30301 note) as amended by the REAL ID Modernization Act, H.R. 133,
Division U, Title X; and 6 CFR Part 37.
761—601.5(321) Parent’s, guardian’s, or custodian’s consent. The application of an unmarried person
under the age of 18 years is subject to the following:
601.5(1) Form 430018, Parent’s, Guardian’s or Custodian’s Consent to Issue Driver’s License or
Permit, or its equivalent must be submitted at the time of issuance or to the email address listed in
subrule 601.1(3).
601.5(2) The form shall contain the verified consent and confirmation of the applicant’s date of
birth and be signed by either parent of the applicant, the guardian of the applicant, or a person having
custody of the applicant under Iowa Code chapter 232 or 600A.
601.5(3) The signature, which may be electronic, is to be dated and subject to the following
verification or its equivalent: “I certify under penalty of perjury and pursuant to the laws of the state
of Iowa that the preceding is true and correct.” No exception will be made for the parent’s, guardian’s
or custodian’s absence from Iowa. A married person under the age of 18 years shall submit a marriage
certificate that complies with paragraph 601.4(5)“b” in lieu of the consent form.
This rule is intended to implement Iowa Code section 321.184.
7
761—601.6(321) REAL ID driver’s license. A person who seeks a driver’s license that is compliant
with the REAL ID Act of 2005, 49 U.S.C. Section 30301 note, as implemented in 6 CFR Part
37 (“REAL ID driver’s license”) effective January 1, 2024, must meet and comply with all lawful
requirements for an Iowa driver’s license and must also meet and comply with all application and
documentation requirements set forth at 6 CFR Part 37, including but not limited to documentation of
identity, date of birth, social security number, address of principal residence and evidence of lawful
status in the United States. Documents and information provided will be verified pursuant to 6 CFR
Section 37.13. An applicant for a REAL ID driver’s license is subject to a mandatory facial image
capture that meets the requirements of 6 CFR Section 37.11(a). A REAL ID driver’s license may not
be issued, reissued or renewed except as permitted in 6 CFR Part 37 and may not be issued, reissued or
renewed by any procedure, in any circumstance, to any person or for any term prohibited under 6 CFR
Part 37. The information on the front of any REAL ID driver’s license must include all information and
markings required by 6 CFR Section 37.17. Nothing in this rule requires a person to obtain a REAL ID
driver’s license.
This rule is intended to implement Iowa Code chapter 321; the REAL ID Act of 2005 (49 U.S.C.
Section 30301 note) as amended by the REAL ID Modernization Act, H.R. 133, Division U, Title X; and
6 CFR Part 37.
[Filed 9/16/25, effective 11/19/25]
[Published 10/15/25]
Editor’s Note: For replacement pages for IAC, see IAC Supplement 10/15/25.
8