SNAP information and food resources are available at SNAP Federal Impact Center
Check if you Meet SNAP Work Requirements
Need help with ABE or Manage My Case? Visit the ABE Customer Support Center
Got Medicaid? Get ready to renew! Use Manage My Case to access your benefits, check your redetermination due date, and verify your mailing address. If you're due, renew online right away.
The week of 09/26/2026 - 09/27/2026 ABE and MMC will undergo planned maintenance.
Complete outage for ABE/MMC
Saturday, 09/26/2026 from 5:30 AM to 6:00 PM
Sunday, 09/27/2026 from 6:00 AM to 11:00 AM
While ABE is not available, you may still apply see Apply for Benefits: Cash, SNAP and Medical Assistance
Limited functionality for ABE/MMC
Sunday, 09/27/2026 from 11:00 AM to 10:00 PM
Limited functionality includes:
In ABE, when completing an application, we may ask you to provide proof of some things that the state may be able to verify electronically. It is not necessary to submit these documents. If any information is needed to complete your application you will be contacted by mail or phone.
In Manage My Case (MMC), most of the options will not be available during this time. If you have an existing MMC account, you will only be able to view your current benefits and file an appeal.
We apologize for the disruption in service.
ABE Home Page
Welcome to ABE
Helping people in Illinois lead healthy and independent lives
Use this site to apply for and manage your healthcare, food, and cash assistance benefits.
Check if I Should Apply
Apply for Benefits
Manage My Case
ABE Provider Sign In
Community Partner Registration
Program Options
Click on a program icon for more information
Help to Buy Food
Meet your family's nutritional needs
Healthcare
Support for your family's medical needs
Cash Assistance
Other aid for families in need
Community Supports
Help for adults with long term needs
Medicare Savings
Help paying Medicare premiums
Help to Buy Food
SNAP is the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program that used to be called Food Stamps. SNAP helps low-income people buy the food they need for good nutritional health. If you qualify for the SNAP/State Food Program, you will get an Illinois Link Card. Each month, the amount of your food benefits will be added to your Link Card account, and you can use it like a debit card to pay for food at most grocery stores.
Learn more about SNAP
Help to pay for Health Care coverage
Medicaid and All Kids cover health care for low income people of all ages in Illinois. The Illinois Department of Health Care and Family Services (HFS) is committed to improving the health of Illinois' families by providing access to quality health care. This mission is accomplished through HFS Medical Programs that pay for a wide range of health services, provided by thousands of medical providers throughout Illinois, to about two million Illinoisans each year.
Learn more about Healthcare coverage
Community Supports for Adults with Long Term Needs
Community Supports helps people find the resources needed to remain in their home or community. Screening and assessments are completed to determine individual need for these services.
Learn more about Medical Support for Seniors
Learn more about Disability and Rehabilitation
Learn more about Developmental Disability
Help to pay for Medicare costs
Medicare Savings Programs (MSPs) cover the cost of Medicare premiums for low income seniors and people with disabilities on Medicare. People who qualify for one of the Medicare Savings Programs do not have to use their Social Security income to pay Medicare premiums. For some people, Medicare deductibles and co-insurance charges are also covered.
Learn more about Medicare Savings
Help with Cash Assistance
Households who qualify can receive Cash Assistance to help pay for food, shelter, utilities, and expenses other than medical costs.
Learn more about Cash Assistance
Questions and Answers
Frequently Asked Questions &#40;FAQ&#41;
Let's Get Started!
Check if I Should Apply
Answer a few short questions to see if you might be eligible for benefits. The answers you give will not be saved.
Apply for Benefits
Start an application for benefits. Your answers will be saved and we will use them to decide what benefits you will get.
Manage My Case
View your benefit information, update case information, or complete important renewal activities.
Answer a few short questions to see if a Summer EBT application is needed for your child.
If you are already receiving SNAP or Medicaid, answer a few questions to see if you are subject to work requirements and if you could meet an exemption.
More Options
The State provides other services in addition to the programs you can apply for in ABE. The State and their partners are committed to assisting you with affordable childcare, housing supports, violence and abuse prevention, services for seniors and other challenges. Choose an option to learn more:
Child Care
Child Support Services
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)
Services for Seniors
Learn about More Options for Customers
Questions about Your Benefits?
ABE Manage My Case provides customers with information about their benefits, including application status, redetermination status, recent notices and benefit amounts. Customers can also submit redeterminations and changes and request new benefit programs.
Visit DHS ABE Customer Support Center for more information on how to manage your account using ABE Manage My Case.
Official Site of
The State of Illinois
Privacy Statement
HFS Home
DHS Home
HFS Forms
HFS Brochures
DHS Forms
DHS Brochures
Frequently Asked Questions &#40;FAQ&#41;
Contact Us