0
Health Care That’s
As Unique As You.
LEARN MORE ABOUT PRISM
Our Services
Primary Care
Prism Health provides compassionate, high-quality primary care services tailored to your unique health concerns. Whether you're seeking a safe, non-judgmental healthcare experience or facing systemic barriers to care, we are here to support you.
LEARN MORE
HIV Care
Prism Health offers a full spectrum of care for individuals living with HIV. Our providers take the time to understand your needs, empowering you to make the best decisions for your wellness. We combine evidence-based medicine with patient-centered care to help you achieve optimal health outcomes.
LEARN MORE
Behavioral Health & Substance Use Support
Our behavioral health providers offer culturally affirming therapy designed to bring meaningful and lasting improvements to the lives of those we serve. Our team is highly qualified and experienced in addressing the unique circumstances and challenges individuals may face.
LEARN MORE
Pharmacy
Prism Health offers affirming pharmacy services for our community through our on-site pharmacy, or you can receive your prescriptions directly to your home through mail-order!
LEARN MORE
Sexual Health
Prism Health provides free and fast screening for HIV and other STIs through our dedicated clinic, Pivot, as well as a stigma free environment to address any of your sexual health concerns.
LEARN MORE
PrEP
PrEP, a once-a-day medication to prevent HIV transmission, might be a good choice for you if you are at risk for HIV transmission or want to add more peace of mind to your life.
LEARN MORE
PATIENT RECORDS
Your Health In The Palm Of Your Hand
MYCHART PATIENT PORTAL
VISIT US
Prism Health | Belmont
2236 SE Belmont St
Portland, OR 97214
Nearby Trimet Stops
Stop ID: 408 - SE Belmont & 23rd (Eastbound)
Stop ID: 410 - SE Belmont & 26th (Westbound)
Prism Health | Morris
15 N Morris St
Portland, OR 97227
Nearby Trimet Stops
Stop ID: 6006 - N Vancouver & Stanton (Southbound)
Stop ID: 6364 - N Williams & NE Morris (Northbound)
Prism Health is a center of excellence for comprehensive, compassionate and culturally affirming healthcare for everyone with the aim of addressing long-standing health disparities in the LGBTQ+ community and promoting equitable access to healthcare.
About Prism Health