Driver Licenses &#038; ID Cards
Renew or Replace Your Florida Driver License or ID Card
Language | Idioma
English
Español
General Information
Customers must renew their Florida driver license or ID card every eight years. The expiration date is listed on the credential. Florida driver license holders may renew their credential up to 18 months in advance of the expiration date and ID card holders may renew 12 months in advance of the expiration date.
Drivers can replace their driver license or ID card prior to its expiration if the credential is lost, stolen or they need to make an update. The following may require a replacement credential.
If there is a change of address, Florida driver license or ID card holders have 30 days to update their address on the credential.
If there is a name change, Florida driver license or ID card holders must update their name with the Social Security Administration prior to updating their name on the credential and they must present an original or certified court order of marriage certificate when applying to change the name on their driver license or ID card.
If a driver license or ID card is lost or stolen.
If a customer wishes to add or update a designation or other information listed on the credential.
For a list of fees to renew or replace a credential, please visit our fees page.
For more information about obtaining a Florida driver license, please visit our driver license page.
Renew Online
FLHSMV offers a quick, convenient way to renew your driver license or ID card online at MyDMV Portal . The following driver license services are offered through MyDMV Portal:
Renew a driver license
Florida offers an online convenience renewal service for customers every other renewal period. Visit MyDMV Portal to see if you are eligible.
Update the address on your driver license or ID card.
Replace a lost or stolen credential.
To renew or replace a credential online, the department must verify a customer’s Social Security number. If the department is unable to verify, the customer must follow up with the Social Security Administration.
For a list of fees to renew or replace a credential, please visit our fees page .
Customers using MyDMV Portal should receive their credential in the mail within 2-3 weeks from the transaction. A $2.00 processing fee is assessed to the total transaction. Customers can receive an emailed confirmation receipt of the transaction. On the payment confirmation page customers must select ‘yes’, enter an email address, and click ‘Send Email Confirmation’ for the information to be emailed.
Renew in Office
Customers may visit any driver license service center statewide to renew or replace their credential. Please visit our locations page for a full list.
Customers must go into an office:
If a customer used the online convenience service on their last renewal.
If a customer is not REAL ID compliant.
If a customer wishes to update their photo.
If the customer is changing their name using an original or certified court order or marriage certificate.
If a customer wishes to add or remove a designation, or has a court order to update their credential.
If a customer is getting a Florida driver license or ID card for the first time.
If the customer holds a commercial driver license.
If the license has the word “TEMPORARY” printed on it.
For information regarding what to bring to renew or replace a credential, please visit our What To Bring page .