Go to Content
In-person and telehealth available
1225 4th St. NE
Washington ,
DC
20002
USA
Get Directions
View Hours
Retrieving hours...
202-347-8512
Book Online
Operated by Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, DC, Inc.
Operated by Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, DC, Inc.
Prescriptions available
Insurance not required
Walk in to get emergency contraception
Spanish
Deaf and hard of hearing support with advance notice
Quick appointments
We’ll do everything we can to help you get
high-quality, affordable care.
We accept:
Aetna
Aetna Better Health of Maryland
Aetna-SRC
Anthem-BCBS (no Healthkeepers-MCO)
Assurant Health
BCBS-DC
CareFirst Administrators
Cigna
Compass Rose Health Plan
GEHA(UHC)
Golden Rule Insurance Company
Kaiser Permanente (medication abortion only)
MA-DC HSCSN
MA-MD Amerigroup
MA-MD United Healthcare Community Plan
Maryland Physicians Care
MedStar Family Choice (MD plan)
Molina Healthcare
Multiplan
Priority Partners (pending)
Sentara Health
UHC Student Resources
UMR
United Healthcare
Wellpoint
Not covered?
We will never turn you away if you can’t pay.
Find out how to
get affordable coverage
and what to consider when choosing a plan.
*Most health insurance plans cover prescription birth control, annual wellness exams, and STI/HIV screenings with no copay. Contact your health insurance company to find out if the services you need are covered.
Payment Information
Medicaid is accepted for most family planning services. We are contracted with many health insurance plans. You should contact your health insurance company directly to confirm that the services you are interested in are covered, and what, if any, out-of-pocket costs you are required to pay. When you make your appointment be sure to give your insurance information. Bring your insurance card.
You must pay on the day of your appointment unless you’ve made other arrangements.
We accept:
Cash
Major Credit/Debit Cards
HSA/FSA debit cards
In-person:
Appointments directly at the clinic
Telehealth:
Remote care through phone/video
Abortion
Birth Control
Emergency Contraception (Morning-After Pill)
Gender-Affirming Care
HIV Services
Mental Health
Pregnancy Testing and Planning
Prenatal and Postpartum Services
Sexual and Reproductive Concerns
STD Testing and Treatment
Vaccines
Day
Hours
Note
Monday
8 am - 5:30 pm
Tuesday
8 am - 6:30 pm
Wednesday
8 am - 6:30 pm
Thursday
8 am - 4:30 pm
Friday
8 am - 4:30 pm
Saturday
8 am - 4:30 pm
Sunday
Closed
Holidays and Closures
We're closed:
New Year&#x27;s Day,
Martin Luther King Day,
Inauguration Day,
Presidents Day,
Memorial Day,
Juneteenth,
Independence Day,
Labor Day,
Indigenous Peoples&#x27; Day,
Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Eve
Appointment Policies and Information
Please check-in 15 minutes prior to your scheduled appointment.
Currently, walk-in appointments are accepted for pregnancy testing and emergency contraception only. Walk-ins for pregnancy testing must be before 3 p.m. Walk-ins for emergency contraception are available any time during operating hours.
By Metro
Red Line: Take the Red Line to the Noma-Gallaudet U Metro station. Walk approximately three blocks up Florida Avenue. Turn right on 4th street. 1225 4th Street is located on the left.
By Bus:
Routes: 90, 92, and X3. Bus Stop: #1003647
Parking:
Free rooftop parking is available on a first come basis. There is also paid parking in the NoMa neighborhood, including Colonial Parking a 6 minute walk from the health center.
Childcare Policies
We do not provide childcare services. We request that you please make childcare arrangements.
Services Offered
You can fill your birth control prescriptions at our health center instead of the pharmacy. Birth control refill pick-ups are available during business hours with a current prescription on file.
In-person:
Appointments directly at the clinic
Telehealth:
Remote care through phone/video
Abortion
Birth Control
Emergency Contraception (Morning-After Pill)
Gender-Affirming Care
HIV Services
Mental Health
Pregnancy Testing and Planning
Prenatal and Postpartum Services
Sexual and Reproductive Concerns
STD Testing and Treatment
Vaccines
Day
Hours
Note
Monday
8 am - 5:30 pm
Tuesday
8 am - 6:30 pm
Wednesday
8 am - 6:30 pm
Thursday
8 am - 4:30 pm
Friday
8 am - 4:30 pm
Saturday
8 am - 4:30 pm
Sunday
Closed
This health center is operated by Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, DC, Inc.
Pricing and/or insurance information are estimates made in good faith
and are subject to change at any time. This health center supports
and welcomes all people regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity
or biological sex, including but not limited to lesbian, gay, bisexual,
queer, questioning, and intersex clients. The information provided on
this site is for informational purposes and does not constitute medical
or legal advice.
Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, DC, Inc. is a tax-exempt 501(c)(3) charitable organization.
For further information, please refer to our Terms of Use .
&copy; Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, DC, Inc.
Learn About This Affiliate
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all