Gender Affirming
Hormone Therapy
Patient Handbook
PUB-15 IMP 08/22
2
Contents
Our Approach to Care 3
Your First Appointment 7
Ongoing Care & Labs 10
Billing & Insurance 12
Pharmacies & Refills 13
Estrogen Patients 15
Testosterone Patients 18
Injections/Injection Training 21
Transition Help 23
Online Resources 25
Welcome to gender-affirming hormone therapy at
Planned Parenthood! You don’t need to read this whole reference
guide cover to cover right away—use it if you can’t remember
something, or you’re not sure how something works.
You’re also welcome to contact one of our LGBTQ Care Coordinators
or Patient Services with any questions. We are here for you!
Contacting Care Coordinators
By Email:
Minnesota: minnesota.lgbtqcare@ppncs.org
Iowa: iowa.lgbtqcare@ppncs.org
Nebraska: nebraska.lgbtqcare@ppncs.org
North Dakota: northdakota.lgbtqcare@ppncs.org
South Dakota: southdakota.lgbtqcare@ppncs.org
By Phone:
Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota:
651.359.2557
Iowa:
515.235.0430
Nebraska:
515.309.1525
Patient Services: 1.800.230.PLAN (7526)
3
Our Approach to Care
The Care We Provide
We believe everyone deserves access to high-quality, supportive care.
You deserve health care providers who make you feel accepted,
heard, and empowered. You can trust us to provide honest, unbiased
information in a safe, supportive environment.
Our gender-affirming hormone therapy services include both
estrogen hormone therapy and testosterone hormone therapy.
We work with all patients, regardless of gender or identity. We work
with your individual goals instead of putting you into “box.”
Informed Consent
Our hormone therapy uses an informed consent model. You do not
need a diagnosis or therapist’s referral to receive care. We will inform
you about the effects and discuss risks. You decide what’s best for you
and your body.
Minors
You must be at least 16 years old and post-puberty. Bring a parent or
guardian to your first visit if you are under the age of:
• 18 in Iowa, Minnesota, or South Dakota
• 19 in Nebraska
Questions?
Our LGBTQ Care Coordinators can help you connect with resources
in your community, help find answers to your questions, get care at
our health centers, or try to smooth out any bumps in the road you
encounter along the way.
We are happy to provide information, resource recommendations,
and guidance on all steps of medical, legal, and social transition.
Please don’t hesitate to ask about anything, big or small. We’ll do our
best to help you.
Locations
You can visit any health center in our region. You can also have your
appointment by a telehealth video call. You do not need to visit the
4
same health center or see the same provider for each appointment.
If you move between a health center/telehealth in Iowa/Nebraska and
Minnesota/South Dakota, you may need to complete an additional
intake process.
Your Name and Gender Marker
We get that names can be complicated. We will do our best to affirm
you and minimize the distress that can arise from deadnaming and
misgendering.
However, we need to have you entered in our system under your
current legal name. This ensures there aren’t any problems billing your
insurance or filling your prescriptions.
Please provide us with a chosen name if you prefer, and we will use
this name in all interactions with you. We can find you in our system
under your chosen name. You never need to tell us your legal name
once your chart is created unless you want to.
Because of insurance requirements and certain limitations in our
software, you may see your legal name used on occasion. These may
include:
• Bills
• Prescriptions
• Patient Portal messages
We understand that seeing your legal name may be distressing,
and we apologize. We are working to reduce the use of legal names
whenever possible.
Also, strictly for insurance purposes, your sex in our system must
match what’s listed with your insurance company. This may result in
you seeing the wrong sex or gender listed in medical records.
If you change your legal name and/or gender marker with your
insurance company, please let us know as soon as possible so we can
update our system.
Names and Pronouns in Public Areas: We want you to feel
comfortable when you visit us. We will default to using your chosen
name and the pronouns you provide in all areas of the health center.
If you would prefer us to use one set of names and pronouns in the
public waiting area and another in the private exam room, please let
us know.
5
Patient Portal
Our online Patient Portal is a secure and convenient way to manage
your hormone care with us. You can use it to:
• Securely message health center staff and our LGBTQ Care
Coordinators with any questions or concerns.
• View your lab results.
• Retrieve your medical records.
• View paperless statements and pay bills.
You’ll receive an enrollment email when you have your appointment.
Visit ppncs.org/portal to learn more.
Confidentiality
All services are confidential (except in cases of abuse). Please be open
with the provider to ensure that you receive the best health care.
Phone Calls: We care about your safety. You can choose how you
want us to identify when we call. We can use “Planned Parenthood”
or something more discrete (“Doctor’s Office”). If you have any
preferences about what name and/or pronouns we should use when
calling, please let us know.
Mailings: We do send you mail, both bills and occasional
communications.
To stop receiving mailed bills, you can choose to receive your
statements electronically. Set up a Patient Portal account, go to
‘Settings,’ uncheck the ‘Send Paper Statements Box,’ and hit ‘Submit.’
You’ll get your statements through the Portal.
If you are concerned about receiving any mail at all, you may consider
providing us with an alternate address. This way, correspondence is
not sent to your home. These could include:
• The home of a trusted friend or family member
• A P.O. box
• General delivery service at a post office
Please contact Patient Services with any changes. We will put notes in
your chart indicating your communication preferences.
6
Feedback and Concerns
We want to make your health care experience the best it can be, and
your feedback is critical in making that happen.
Anonymous: You may receive surveys that ask about your experience
at your appointment or as a patient. We appreciate you taking the
time to respond. We review all feedback. These surveys help us to
focus on areas where we can grow and serve you better.
Direct: If you have a negative experience or want to talk to us about
anything, please reach out however you feel comfortable:
• LGBTQ Care Coordinators (contact info on p. 2)
• Patient Services (contact info on p. 2)
• Ask to be connected to a manager at the health center where you
were seen.
7
Your First Appointment
How to Prepare
You don’t need to bring much to your first appointment:
• A photo ID
• Your medical insurance information, or proof of income if you do
not have insurance.
• If you are or have ever been on hormone therapy, please bring
any medical records or information you have.
It may help things go easier if you can come prepared to talk about:
• Your medical history and those of close family members (parents
and siblings).
• Specific goals you’re hoping to achieve.
• Questions or concerns you have about hormone therapy.
At the Front Desk
When you arrive, we’ll ask you for your ID. You’ll confirm your last
name and date of birth on your ID. We will not ask for a first name.
If we don’t have your demographic information, we’ll hand you a sheet
to fill out:
• Chosen name
• Gender identity
• Assigned sex at birth
• Pronouns
• Income information
In the Exam Room
We’ll do a quick physical assessment:
• Height
• Weight
• Blood pressure
We will collect some information:
• Physical/medical history
• Sexual history
8
• Surgical history
• Mental health history
• Current health practices
These inform us about potential risks and help us monitor your health
during treatment.
We understand that it can be hard or awkward to answer questions
like these. We ask that you share as openly as you can. Please let us
know how we can make the conversation easier and more comfortable
for you.
We will draw blood for lab tests: These are done to monitor
possible side effects of hormones. If needles are a problem for you,
please let us know. We’ll see what we can do to make you feel more
comfortable.
Baseline Hormone Levels: We do not usually take these when
starting hormone therapy. We will check your hormone levels when
you come in for follow-up appointments.
We’ll ask you about your transition goals: We like to learn about
your journey with gender, how your transition is going, and where you
want to end up. This helps us to not make assumptions and create a
care plan that fits your needs.
We’ll talk about hormone therapy:
• What the effects and risks are.
• How you will take them.
• Answer any questions you might have.
You’ll review our informed consent form, which includes:
• Risks
• Benefits
• Expected physical changes
• Expected time frame for changes
• Possible emotional changes
We’ll go through the document together. You can ask any questions
you have before signing it.
Receiving Your Prescription
Most of our patients can get a hormone prescription at the end of
their first visit with us. However, sometimes it makes sense to wait for
9
lab results or to consult with another provider.
Once the provider has determined that you are medically ready to
begin transgender hormone therapy, you will sign the consent form.
Then they will prescribe hormones.
We’ll send your prescription electronically to your pharmacy. It may be
available immediately, but supply issues or prior authorizations may
cause delays.
If your prescription directions are different than what your provider
told you, please follow your provider’s instructions. For example,
your dosage may have changed. Please contact us if you have any
questions.
The label may have your legal name on it so insurance will cover it. We
can help you with the legal name change process if desired.
Telehealth
Telehealth appointments work the same way as visits to our health
centers, except:
• You will self-report your height and weight.
• We will not check your blood pressure.
• We will not draw initial labs.
If you need labs, you may be asked to come in for a quick lab
appointment. If you live too far away, we may be able to work with a
non-Planned Parenthood lab close to you for the necessary tests.
Key Things to Remember
Be Patient: Everyone’s body is different. The extent of change and
rate of change experienced by you may be different from others. Like
a “second puberty,” the full effects of these hormones may take years.
Everyone changes at their own rate.
More is not always better: Higher doses do not necessarily make
things move quicker. It could endanger your health.
Other Commonly Reported Effects: Estrogen and testosterone
control a lot of things about our bodies. They affect everyone in
different ways. Some people experience things beyond the usual
physical changes the hormones will cause. You may notice changes in
things like:
• Sexual Orientation: You may find who you are attracted to
changes.
10
• Sexual Experience: You may experience changes in what
arouses you. Changes in how it feels to be aroused or what feels
good. The feel of your orgasms may change.
• Emotions: You may feel emotions more strongly or less strongly.
You may notice a difference in what emotions you feel more
often.
• Temperature Regulation: You may find your tolerance for heat
or cold may change.
If you have any questions or concerns,
• Bring them up at your next follow-up appointment.
• Contact our care team.
• Contact an LGBTQ Care Coordinator (contact info on p. 2)
Ongoing Care & Labs
Follow-Up Appointments
During your first year, we like to see you at 3 months, 6 months, and 12
months for follow-ups so we can:
• Do lab work to see how things are going.
• Check in with you about the changes you’re experiencing.
• Check that your hormone levels are in a therapeutic range for
your desired effects.
We may make dosage adjustments based on your feedback and lab
results.
If your levels are stable and you’re happy with your protocol, after
your 12-month visit we’ll want to see you once yearly for a follow-up
appointment and labs. You are always welcome to come in sooner if
you’d like, and we may require more frequent follow-ups if you are not
on a stable dose.
It is your responsibility to schedule these appointments.
Lab Work
You will need periodic blood draws so we can monitor your
hormone levels. We want to make sure you’re staying healthy on the
medications we’re prescribing.
We do labs in our own health centers during your appointment. If you
11
are seen by telehealth and require labs, you can call 1-800-230-7526
and schedule a brief appointment for lab work.
If you live too far from one of our health centers, or have other special
circumstances, sometimes we can arrange for you to get your labs
from an outside provider.
Lab Timing: Your hormone levels will fluctuate throughout the course
of each dose. We prefer that you schedule your labs during the
middle of a dose cycle, so that we can interpret them properly. See
the “Estrogen Patients” and “Testosterone Patients” sections for more
detailed information.
Dosage or Medication Changes
If you want to change your dosage, switch to a different method of
administration, or add/remove a medication, you’ll likely need a visit
and labs first.
At this visit, the provider will educate you about the medication and
how to take it. Three months after changes to your medication, we’ll
often need another visit and a set of labs to see how it’s going.
Stopping Hormones
If you choose to stop taking your hormones for any reason, this is
generally okay. Just let us know that you’re stopping, the reason why,
and if you have any plans for resuming in the future.
Stopping hormones is safe, and there is no need to taper your dose.
You may experience mood swings and other emotional and physical
affects as your body adjusts. Over time, some of the temporary
changes you experienced on hormone therapy will revert to the way
your body was before, but permanent changes will remain.
If you have had your ovaries/testes removed and your body no longer
produces its own hormones, you will need to remain on some form of
hormone therapy to maintain your health. Please contact us and set up
an appointment to discuss your options.
Transferring Care to Planned Parenthood from Another
Provider
If you are currently on hormone therapy and are transferring care from
another provider, you will still need to have an initial appointment
so you can sign our consent form and complete any additional
paperwork.
12
If you are happy with your current protocol and there are no reasons
to change it, then you just need a yearly follow-up as an established
patient.
Billing & Insurance
Prior Authorizations
Certain medications may require authorization by your insurance
company before they will provide coverage.
We’ll handle the paperwork, but please notify us if your pharmacy
says an authorization is needed. This can reduce delays since we don’t
always receive notice automatically.
Prior authorizations can take up to two weeks to process. You are
welcome to check in with us for updates while you are waiting for a
response.
If your prior authorization is denied, we will work with you to appeal or
find an alternative solution. Sometimes a plan will cover an alternative
medication if we can show that you tried the preferred formulary
medication first and had a problem with it.
Some medications may require a yearly authorization to maintain your
prescription. If your prescription needs renewal, please contact us
1-2 weeks before you run out to allow extra time for us to submit for
authorization.
Paying Out of Pocket
We accept cash, checks, credit cards (Visa, Mastercard, Discover, and
American Express), Flex Spending Account (FSA) cards, and money
orders.
If you don’t have insurance, you may qualify for reduced cost
appointments and lab services. Call our Patient Services team at
1-800-230-7526 for cost estimates and to learn about your options.
Cost of Medicines
If you are using insurance, your cost will be determined by your plan’s
copay and/or deductible.
If you are uninsured, you will need to cover the cost of your hormones
each month.
13
Prices can vary widely between pharmacies. You can use an online
tool like GoodRx to compare prices in your area and take advantage of
coupon programs.
Losing Coverage
If you lose insurance coverage, please let us know. We can help
you find the most affordable approach to continuing your hormone
therapy. We want you to have access to this medically necessary care.
Pharmacies & Refills
How to Fill Your Prescriptions
You can fill and refill your prescriptions at the pharmacy of your choice.
We’ll send your prescription information directly to the pharmacy that
you indicated at your appointment.
If they have your contact information, your pharmacy should notify you
when your prescription is ready for pickup, but it’s fine to call them
and ask them when it will be ready.
If it’s your first time filling at a pharmacy, bring your insurance card
with you. They also may ask for your prescription number, which is
marked “Rx.”
The label may have your legal name on it so insurance will cover it. We
can help you with the legal name change process if desired.
Refills
You will receive enough refills of your prescription to last until your
next follow-up appointment.
When you are running low on medications, contact your pharmacy to
have them refill your prescription.
Some pharmacies may offer automatic refill options and/or 90-day
supplies.
If you’ve used your last refill and you wish to continue your
prescription, you’ll need to schedule a follow-up appointment with us.
Please contact us 1-2 weeks before you run out of your last refill. This
will allow time for your appointment and for us work out any issues
with the pharmacy and insurance.
Please remember to schedule an appointment if you are due for one.
14
Courtesy Fills: If you have run out of refills but have not been able to
come in for your required visit or labs, please let us know. Depending
how long it’s been, you may be able to get a temporary, 30-day
courtesy fill, to give you time to follow up.
Sourcing Issues
Sometimes pharmacies can’t get the medication, or the specific
injection supplies you need to take your medication. Sometimes
a medication is backordered, but will arrive in a week or two, and
sometimes a pharmacy will never be able to source a particular
medication.
Please make a note of the specific problem in case we need to help.
You can call other pharmacies in your area and ask if they’re able to
get the medication/supply. It’s helpful to try a different chain and/or a
locally owned pharmacy. Ask your pharmacy to special order what you
need or to check their warehouse.
In the case of injection supplies, there are alternate needle and
syringe sizes that can work. However, the injection needle needs to
match what we prescribed, unless you are switching to a different
administration route.
If you can’t source the medication, we may be able to change your
prescription and get a new authorization from your insurance. This
could take some time and may require a visit to teach you about the
medication.
Changing Pharmacies
You can transfer your prescriptions to a different pharmacy yourself.
Call your new pharmacy, give them your information and request that
your prescriptions are transferred from your old pharmacy.
You can also call us to update your pharmacy in our system.
New Testosterone Prescriptions: If you have a brand-new
testosterone prescription that you haven’t ever filled, you will not be
able to transfer your prescription. You will either need to fill it first at
the original pharmacy or contact us to arrange the transfer.
15
Estrogen Patients
Estrogen Hormone Therapy
Estrogen hormone therapy is medicine that can be used as part of
your gender transition process. There are three medicines that you
might be given:
Estrogen is the sex hormone that causes the development of feminine
characteristics, such as breast growth, feminine fat distribution,
reduced body hair, and smoother skin. It may be given as a pill that
you swallow or put under your tongue, as a shot, or as a patch you put
on your skin.
Testosterone is the sex hormone that causes the development of
masculine characteristics. You may be given medicines called anti-
androgens (or testosterone blockers) that can block and lower the
amount of testosterone made by your body. This makes estrogen work
better. The most common anti-androgen is called spironolactone,
which comes as a pill. You may also be prescribed finasteride, also a
pill, which helps prevent the hair loss caused by testosterone.
Progesterone is another female hormone that is sometimes used
alongside estrogen. There is no scientific consensus about its
effectiveness, but anecdotal reports claim that progesterone helps
with breast development. It may also raise libido, and both positively
and negatively impact moods. You can discuss progesterone with
your provider; however, we often recommend waiting a year before
introducing it.
Other medications: Please note that not all options you read about
online can be prescribed by PPNCS providers. This is due to lack of
scientific evidence to support safe and effective treatment with certain
medications. Please come to us with questions and requests.
Planned Parenthood is unable to prescribe bicalutamide at this time.
Expected Changes
Changes can start within 2-3 months and can take 2-3 years or more
to take full effect. Some of the changes are temporary and will revert if
you discontinue hormone therapy.
Lab Timing and Hormone Levels
We monitor your hormone levels to see how your body is responding
to the medication and to help determine your dose.
16
Lab Timing: Your hormone levels will fluctuate through your dose
cycle, rising to a peak and then slowly tapering off. We prefer to take
labs during the middle of your cycle, or at least not too soon after your
last dose. Since we draw labs during your follow-up appointments,
please schedule your follow-up appointments at an appropriate time
in your cycle whenever possible.
• Oral: Your lab can be drawn at any time, but please note what
time you took your dose.
• Patches: If you change patches twice a week, draw labs on day 2
(e.g., if you start on Sunday morning, draw labs on Tuesday)
• Injections: Your lab should be drawn about halfway through your
injection cycle (e.g., day 3 or 4 of a weekly cycle. If you inject on
Sunday, have your labs drawn Wednesday or Thursday.)
Target Levels: These can vary depending on your goals and what
kinds of changes you experience, but in general we aim for:
• Estradiol: 100-200pg/ml
• Testosterone: <50ng/dL
Fertility
No one can tell you for sure if you’ll be able to cause a pregnancy
after taking estrogen hormone therapy. You may still be able to cause
a pregnancy, or you may become permanently sterile after several
months of hormone therapy, even if you stop the medicines.
If you think that you may want to parent a child in the future using
your own sperm, you should speak to your provider about sperm
preservation in a sperm bank BEFORE beginning hormone therapy.
However, since you are not guaranteed to be sterile, if you are
remaining sexually active with a person who can become pregnant,
you should always continue to use a birth control method to prevent
an unplanned pregnancy.
Other Considerations
Facial and Body Hair: Estrogen may slow and thin out body hair,
but it often has little effect on facial hair. You may wish to seek out a
permanent hair removal solution, like laser hair removal or electrolysis.
This is sometimes covered by insurance, so it is worth checking with
your plan. Contact an LGBTQ Care Coordinator for options in your
area. (contact info on p. 2)
17
Voice: Estrogen will not change the pitch or sound of your voice.
Speech therapy can be an effective way to train a more feminine voice
if you desire it. There are paid and free tools for self-training, but it is
safer and more effective to work with a trained speech and language
pathologist. Contact an LGBTQ Care Coordinator for options in your
area or online. (contact info on p. 2)
Sexual Function: Over time, you may find that your sex drive
decreases, and you may find it more difficult to achieve and maintain
erections. Less frequent erections can eventually lead to shrinkage
and atrophy. Having more frequent erections can slow or prevent this
process, and you can also speak to your provider about lowering your
anti-androgen dose or taking an erectile dysfunction medication such
as Viagra or Cialis.
Surgeries
Some patients choose to pursue one or more gender-affirming
surgeries as part of their transition. These include:
• Vaginoplasty: Creation of a vagina and vulva (clitoris and labia)—
commonly referred to as GCS, SRS, or “Bottom Surgery.”
• Vulvaplasty: Creation of a vulva (clitoris and labia) without
a vaginal canal. Also known as “zero depth” vaginoplasty.
This involves an easier recovery time and fewer long-term
commitments but does not allow for penetration.
• Orchiectomy: Removal of the testes/balls.
• Breast augmentation: Increases breast size through implants or
fat transfer.
• Tracheal shave, or Adam’s apple reduction.
• Facial feminization surgery.
• Voice feminization surgery.
If you are interested in learning more about surgery options and
surgeons in your area, or need advice on working with insurance
for coverage, you can contact an LGBTQ Care Coordinator for
information. (contact info on p. 2)
18
Testosterone Patients
Testosterone Hormone Therapy
Testosterone hormone therapy is medicine that can be used as part of
your gender transition process. The medicine is called testosterone.
Testosterone is the sex hormone that causes the development of
masculine characteristics, such as a deeper voice, facial and body hair
growth, clitoral enlargement (“bottom growth”), increased muscle
mass, masculine fat distribution, and stopping your period.
Testosterone can be given as a shot or put on the skin as a gel or a
patch.
Planned Parenthood is unable to prescribe Testosterone ampoules or
pellets at this time.
Expected Changes
Changes can start within 2-3 months (sometimes sooner) and can
take 2-3 years or more for their full effects. Some of the changes are
temporary and will revert if you discontinue hormone therapy.
Hormone Levels and Lab Timing
We monitor your hormone levels to see how your body is responding
to the medication and help determine your dose.
Lab Timing: Your hormone levels will fluctuate through your dose
cycle, rising to a peak and then slowly tapering off. We prefer to take
labs during the middle of your cycle, or at least not too soon after your
last dose. Since we draw labs during your follow-up appointments,
please schedule your follow-up appointments at an appropriate time
in your cycle whenever possible:
• Injections: Your lab should be drawn about halfway through
your injection cycle (e.g., day 3 or 4 of a weekly cycle. If you inject
on Sunday, have your labs drawn Wednesday or Thursday.)
• Gel: Your lab can be drawn at any time, but please note what
time you applied your dose.
• Patches: Your lab can be drawn at any time, but please note what
time you applied your dose.
Target Levels: These can vary depending on your goals and
what kinds of changes you experience, but in general we aim for
testosterone: 300-1000ng/dL.
19
Insurance Authorization
Testosterone is a DEA schedule III controlled substance.
You will likely need a prior authorization before your insurance plan
will cover your medications.
This authorization is usually renewed once yearly. We are only able to
write the prescription for 120 days of refills, and some insurance plans
will only pay for one month of medication at a time.
Allergic Reactions
It is common to get a bit of itching at the injection site, or some
soreness and mild swelling at the site for a few days. It is rare, but
possible, to have a true allergy to the oil in which the testosterone is
suspended.
If you have a bothersome reaction to testosterone, please let us know.
We can problem-solve with you. In some cases, you might switch to a
different formulation.
If you are concerned that you’re having an anaphylactic reaction
(swelling, difficulty breathing, sometimes nausea/vomiting), please
call 911.
Fertility
No one can tell you for sure if taking testosterone will affect your
ability to get pregnant. You could get pregnant, or you may never be
able to get pregnant in the future, even if you stop the testosterone.
If you have sex with a person who makes sperm, you need to use birth
control to prevent pregnancy, just in case. If you do get pregnant, you
must stop the testosterone.
If you think you may want to be pregnant in the future, you should
talk to your doctor or nurse about your options before you start
testosterone.
Other Considerations
Voice: Testosterone will likely cause your voice to drop in pitch. The
results vary, and not everyone achieves their desired results through
hormones alone. In addition, a masculine-sounding voice depends on
many factors besides pitch. Speech therapy can be an effective way to
train a more masculine voice if you desire it. There are paid and free
tools for self-training, but it is safer and more effective to work with
a trained speech and language pathologist. Contact an LGBTQ Care
20
Coordinator for options in your area or online. (contact info on p. 2)
Acne: Some patients experience acne within the first few months. It
tends to peak around one year and then subside. Talk to your provider
about your options, which could include adjusting your testosterone
dose or standard acne treatments.
Hair Loss: You may experience some degree of “male pattern
baldness,” especially if you have a family history of hair loss. This will
vary from person to person but can sometimes begin very soon after
starting testosterone. You can talk with your provider about treatment
options, which include minoxidil (Rogaine) and finasteride.
Note: Finasteride blocks DHT, a form of testosterone that has
masculinizing effects. Taking it will help prevent hair loss but may also
impact other changes as well.
Vaginal Atrophy: You may experience itching, burning, or irritation.
The lining may become thinner and more prone to tearing. You can
talk to your provider about treatment options, including topical
estrogen cream, which is localized and should not impact overall
masculinization
Binding
Chest binding is a technique used to create the appearance of a flatter
chest. Binding is generally safe, but there are risks and it is important
to do it carefully and responsibly.
You can find more information on binding, including safety tips, a
list of popular commercial binders, and links to low/no-cost binder
programs on the Online Resources page (p. 25).
Surgeries
Some patients choose to pursue one or more gender-affirming
surgeries as part of their transition. These include:
• Top surgery: Removal of the breasts (double mastectomy) and
creation of a masculine chest.
• Phalloplasty: Creation of a penis using tissue from a donor site on
your body.
• Metoidioplasty: Creation of a penis using your existing genital
tissue.
• Hysterectomy/Oophorectomy: Removal of the uterus and/or
ovaries.
21
• Facial masculinization surgery, including Adam’s apple
implantation.
If you are interested in learning more about surgery options and
surgeons in your area, or need advice on working with insurance
for coverage, you can contact an LGBTQ Care Coordinator for
information. (contact info on p. 2)
Injections/Injection Training
Planned Parenthood cannot administer your hormones for you. We
will instruct you on how to self-administer your shots.
Once you have your prescription and injection supplies, you are
welcome to come in for an injection training appointment. Bring your
hormones and your supplies to the appointment. Our staff will teach
you how to self-inject and walk you through giving yourself your first
injection. You will also receive an injection brochure with step-by-step
instructions.
Accessing Injection Supplies
You’ll receive a prescription for needles and syringes which should
cover your injection needs.
If you find that you need additional supplies, you can:
• Order them online: Make sure you order the exact size/gauge
needles and syringes you were prescribed. Your supplies should
be sterile, individually sealed, and use Luer Lock tips. Needles
should not be blunt tipped. Ordering online may be the easiest
and least expensive option.
• Purchase them from a local pharmacy: It is legal to purchase
syringes and needles from pharmacies in MN, SD, and ND.
However, the pharmacist may decline to sell you syringes or
needles, and they may also not have the supplies in stock, so you
may need to shop around. It is recommended that you have your
prescriptions with you as proof of need. Minnesota’s pharmacies
must participate in the MN Syringe/Needle Access Initiative to
sell supplies.
• Obtain them from a syringe exchange: Syringe exchange
programs are legal in MN and ND.
22
Medication Expiration
Every vial of injectable medication has an expiration date. Do not use
this medication past its printed expiration date.
Manufacturers and pharmacists recommend multi-use vials be
discarded 28 days after opening, and we will prescribe enough refills
for you to get a new vial each month. However, it is safe to continue
using a vial past 28 days so long as:
• It is still within the printed expiration date on the packaging.
• The rubber stopper is still able to seal.
• The medication is not cloudy or discolored and does not have
any material floating in it.
Medication shortages do occur on a periodic basis. Keeping a small
stockpile of extra medication on hand can help ensure you do not run
out if the pharmacy does not have your next refill in stock.
Subcutaneous (SubQ) Administration
Your medication vial will likely be labelled for intramuscular use,
but SubQ is a safe and common off-label administration method.
Use whichever delivery method was prescribed to you at your
appointment.
Intramuscular injections typically use a 1”-1 ½” injecting needle. SubQ
injections use a shorter, 5/8” needle.
Sharps Disposal
Improper disposal of syringes, needles, and other sharp objects can
pose a health risk. It can also damage the environment.
You’ll be provided information and instructions on using sharps
containers or other acceptable receptacles.
Needle Phobia
If you have a needle phobia, or any other issue that is preventing you
from administering your shots, please let us know. Sometimes it will
get easier with practice, but if it doesn’t, we can work with you to find
an alternate method of administration.
Some insurance plans may require that you try injections before they
will cover an alternative method.
23
Transition Help
LGBTQ Care Coordinators
Our LGBTQ Care Coordinator Team (contact info on p. 2) is here to be
advocates for you at Planned Parenthood. They are a dedicated point
of contact for any questions, concerns, or needs that you have with
your care with us.
We are happy to provide information, resource recommendations,
and guidance on all steps of medical, legal, and social transition. Many
of the common requests are listed here, but please don’t hesitate to
ask about anything, big or small. We’ll do our best to help you.
Name/Gender Marker Changes
Contact us for help navigating the legal name and gender marker
change process.
We can point you to relevant forms, information, and websites, and
help you get professional (and often free) legal advice if you need it.
For general help, please see the links on the Online Resources page
(p. 25) for:
• NCTE ID Documents Center
• TransLifeline ID Change Library
Letters of Support
We can provide you with letters of appropriate clinical treatment for
gender marker changes, medical referrals for surgery, and any other
forms you need completed by your hormone provider.
Depending on the letter requirements, it can take us one to two weeks
to mail them out to you.
Mental Health Providers
We maintain lists of gender therapists and other trans-affirming
providers for a variety of insurance plans and sliding- scale payment
options.
We can work with you to help you find a mental health professional
who will meet your needs for mental and emotional healthcare,
diagnoses, testing, and medication management.
24
Help With Gender-Affirming Surgery
We can help you with many steps in the process towards surgery:
• Information on surgeons, techniques, and patient experiences.
• Figuring out insurance coverage and appealing denials.
• Mental health professionals who can write required letters of
support.
• Medical referral requests.
• Making plans for logistics and post-op care.
Fertility Resources
Fertility preservation is not usually covered by insurance at this time,
but we can discuss fertility with you. We can share options for fertility
preservation and provide a list of providers in your area.
Support Groups & Community Resources
We can help connect you with support groups and other community-
based resources, like free binder programs, food pantries, LGBTQ
shelters, crisis lines, microgrants, and the nearest LGBTQ centers and
trans-specific events.
Feel free to share community resources with us if you feel
comfortable. It may help another one of our patients!
Support for Your Loved Ones
If your loved ones need education about trans issues, support in their
learning process, or to build community, we can connect them with
support circles and educational resources.
We can also answer questions (with respect for your privacy) if they
come with you to a visit.
25
Online Resources
Planned Parenthood North Central States Health Center
Locations: ppncs.org/locations
Patient Portal Information: plannedparenthood.org/planned-
parenthood-north-central-states/get-care/patient-portal
Concerns About Receiving Mail: faq.usps.com/s/article/What-is-
General-Delivery
Comparing Medication Costs: goodrx.com/
Information About Filling Prescriptions: medlineplus.gov/ency/
article/001956.html
Binding Information: fenwayhealth.org/wp-content/uploads/
Binding_Resource_Guide.pdf
Injection Training Videos: plannedparenthood.org/planned-
parenthood-greater-texas/self-injection-videos
MN Syringe/Needle Access Initiative: health.state.mn.us/people/
syringe/counties/index.html
Syringe Exchange Information: nasen.org/map
Sharps Disposal Information: safeneedledisposal.org
National Center for Transgender Equality ID Documents Center:
transequality.org/documents
TransLifeline ID Change Library: translifeline.org/resource/id-
change-library/
Support for Your Loved Ones: pflag.org/ourtranslovedones
26
Notes
27
1.800.230.PLAN (7526)
PPNCS.ORG