Skip to content
Service
Driver&#8217;s License and ID Required Documents
To get an Idaho license or ID card, the DMV needs to see proof of U.S. Citizenship or Lawful Presence, identity, Idaho residency, and name.
Proof of U.S. Citizenship or Lawful Presence
In order to get an Idaho license or ID card, the DMV needs to see proof of U.S. Citizenship or Lawful Presence, identity, Idaho residency, and possibly your name.
ALL NEW APPLICANTS ARE REQUIRED TO PRESENT PROOF OF U.S. CITIZENSHIP IN THE FORM OF A U.S. BIRTH CERTIFICATE OR LAWFUL PRESENCE.
All new applicants must provide proof of their U.S. Citizenship. If you are not a U.S. Citizen, you must provide proof of your Lawful Presence. The following documents may be acceptable to demonstrate your Citizenship or Lawful Presence. Photocopies and laminated documents are not accepted.
Government-Issued U.S. Birth Certificate
Certificate of Naturalization/Citizenship
Consular Report of Birth Abroad (Form FS-240, DS-1350 or FS-545)
Valid, unexpired U.S. Passport or Passport Card
Permanent Resident Card
U.S. VISA with Temporary I-551 verbiage
Unexpired Employment Authorization Document, Form I-766 or Form I-688B
I-94 (except for B1, B2, WB, WT, or K1 categories)
I-797 letter from DHS
Refugee Travel Document, I20, DS2019
If a certified original copy of a U.S. birth certificate is unobtainable, we may accept a passport or other government issued document that provides satisfactory evidence of a person&#8217;s full legal name, date of birth, and lawful presence.
If you are not a U.S. Citizen, your Lawful Presence Documentation will be checked with USCIS to ensure you are authorized to receive an Idaho Credential. Ensure you bring as much documentation as possible to verify your Lawful Presence to avoid processing delays. Individuals who are not lawfully present in the United States are not eligible for an Idaho driver&#8217;s license or identification card.
Proof of Identity
The DMV must verify your identity and age before issuing you a driver&#8217;s license or ID card.
Photo identity documents include your photograph, verify your age and identity, and must contain your full legal name and date of birth. These documents must be verifiable as authentic, which means we must be able to contact the issuing agency to determine authenticity.
Photo identity documents may be accepted up to 5 years past their expiration date. Documents expired more than 5 years or with no expiration date will require review for approval.
The following are examples of primary documents:
Idaho driver&#8217;s license or identification card
Out-of-state driver&#8217;s license or identification card
Acceptable valid Department of Homeland Security (DHS) photo card/document
U.S. Military ID card or U.S. Retired Military card
U.S. Military Dependent&#8217;s card
U.S. Passport or U.S. Passport card
Original citizenship/naturalization document
Valid Foreign passport
Concealed Weapons Permit issued by the state of Idaho
Veteran&#8217;s Universal Access Card, with photo
Native American ID card, with photo
Junior or senior high school (not college or university) photo card
Junior or senior high school, college or military yearbook/annual
Federal Bureau of Prisons issued Release Identification
Idaho Department of Corrections photo ID card
Idaho Department of Juvenile Corrections photo ID card
Proof of Idaho Residency
You must reside in Idaho to be issued an Idaho license or ID. Your proof of residency documentation must display your name, your principal Idaho residence address, and must be from the last 12 months. Bring your proof of residency documentation with you. Electronic documents should be printed. If you bring two proof of residence documents you will be eligible for a Star Card, Idaho’s REAL ID.
Acceptable proofs of residency include:
Lease/rental agreement, mortgage or deed (must be signed and dated)
Account statement from one or two different public utilities. Cell phone bills are not accepted
Account statement from bank or financial institution
Tax document Form W-2 or Form 1099
Medical or insurance provider statement, invoice, or explanation of benefits
Pay stub or employment verification (must have your legal name)
Idaho school enrollment records with current address or VOC for current school year and current address (college ID not accepted)
Motel, hotel, campground or RV park receipt on letterhead that indicates 30 days or more of residency
Military Leave and Earning Statement (LES) to evidence Idaho residency of applicant deployed outside of Idaho while on active duty
Relief agency or shelter certification
Residency affidavit (must be signed by adult over 18)
Court documents (original or non-altered, and must have current address on the document)
Record of property taxes assessed or paid (receipt date within one year)
Vehicle, homeowner&#8217;s, or renter&#8217;s insurance card, binder, or bill issued by an Idaho-based insurer (must be valid and have current residential address)
Proof of Name
If you have changed your name and your citizenship or lawful presence documents don&#8217;t match the name you wish to use on your license, then you will need to provide documents proving your name change.
These may include:
Valid unexpired U.S. Passport or Passport card in current legal name
Certified Marriage Certificate – Needs to meet Idaho standards with seal and document number showing that it was recorded
Certified Divorce Decree
Adoption Papers
Court-Ordered Name Change Documents
If you are changing your name, ensure it is updated with the Social Security Administration before going to the DMV.
Social Security Number
Applicants must provide their social security number at issuance for electronic verification. If you do not know your number, please contact the Social Security Administration.
If an applicant has changed their name, they must first update their name with the Social Security Administration before applying for a credential or making any name changes at the DMV.
If you have not been assigned a Social Security number, you will need to provide written proof from the Social Security Administration that you have not been assigned a Social Security number.
Note: A new letter confirming that you have not been assigned a Social Security number will be required at each subsequent renewal