0
IL PRIDE CONNECT LEGAL HOTLINE
Need Legal Help? Call the IL Pride Connect Legal Hotline
Call: 855-805-9200
Live Hours: Monday – Thursday, 9 AM to 4 PM*
Languages: English and Spanish
Free and confidential
*Callers who reach out outside of operating hours can leave a voicemail and will receive a call back.
If you’re an LGBTQIA+ individual (or a concerned family member or friend), and you’re facing legal issues that impact your health, safety, or access to care, we’re here to help. The IL Pride Connect Legal Hotline is a free, confidential service offering legal information in Illinois.
We provide information on legal issues related to:
Access to health care, including gender-affirming care
Discrimination or harassment
Public benefits like Medicaid or SNAP
Identity documents
Housing or safety concerns
Other legal issues impacting your well-being
You’ll speak with a trained advocate who can offer a one-time legal information consultation or recommend trusted legal partners.
How It Works
Call during hotline hours and press 1 for English or 2 for Spanish.
If we’re unavailable, you can leave a confidential message with your name, a safe call-back number, and the best time to reach you.
Spanish-speaking callers may be asked to leave a message, and we’ll return your call with a live interpreter.
We do not provide ongoing legal representation but will always try to connect you to further help if needed.
When to Call:
Hotline Hours: Monday – Thursday 9:00 AM – 4:00 PM* (Closed Fridays, Weekends, and Holidays). *Callers who reach out outside of operating hours can leave a voicemail and will receive a call back.
IL PRIDE CONNECT HOTLINE is not a crisis line, and is not able to assist with emergencies or immediate requests for legal assistance. If you are in immediate danger or experiencing a mental health crisis, please call:
Crisis Lines and Other Hotlines
988 Lifeline - 988
Trans Lifeline - 877-565-8860
Trevor Project Suicide Hotline - 866-488-7386
LGBT National Senior Hotline - 888-234-7243
LGBT National Youth Talkline – 800-246-7743
Need to leave the site quickly?
The red “Quick Exit” button in the top right will immediately redirect you to Google.com.
Got it