Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Iowa Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. There is no hearing requirement. If your name change request is approved, you will receive a court order. If you are married, you will need to notify your spouse of your requested name change. There is no publication requirement (unless your spouse is unlocatable).
Name Change (Minor): If you are 14 years or under, you will need the consent of both parents listed on your birth certificate. If one parent does not consent, a hearing will be scheduled. There is no publication requirement (unless a parent is unlocatable). If your name change request is approved, you will receive a court order.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A court order and court certified abstract are required to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): No. The Iowa Health and Human Services Department is no longer processing gender marker amendments on birth certificates.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A court order is required to make this amendment.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): For those born in Iowa, an amended birth certificate with your updated gender marker is required. For those born outside of Iowa, a notarized affidavit from a licensed physician testifying to "sex designation treatment”, or an amended birth certificate, or consular report of birth abroad with updated gender marker, or certificate of citizenship with gender marker are accepted to update your gender marker on your driver’s license or state identification card.
Restrictions based on Criminal Convictions: Iowa prohibits name changes for people who are incarcerated or who have restrictions on their civil liberties due to a felony conviction. Some restrictions on civil liberties may continue even after you have completed your sentence and parole. Even if you cannot legally change your name, you can still change your gender marker.
If you’re thinking about updating your name or gender marker, congratulations! The process and information below might seem overwhelming. Take it one step at a time. There’s additional resources and organizations linked below to help you. You’ve got this!
Iowa Name Changes (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Iowa , you must submit a petition to the court. A petition is a formal written application to a court requesting judicial action—in this case, your name change! These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Courts have discretion to deny a name change petition to a vulgar or offensive name, but courts may not deny a name change simply because you are trans.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below electronically with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
You will need:
Petition for Change of Name
A certified copy of your birth certificate—instructions to request a certified record are available here
A valid photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Application and Affidavit to Defer Payment of Costs .
Step 3: Notify Parties of Interest
If you are married, you will need to notify your spouse. If you do not have a legal spouse, no documentation is required and you may skip this step. Research options to provide legal notice to your spouse here .
After your spouse has been served with the proper documents, you will need to file proof of service with the district court. Inquire with your county’s court clerk about the local form.
If you are unable to locate your spouse regarding your name change, you may need to publish notice of your name change in a newspaper of general circulation in the county of their last known address.
Please contact your local circuit court for more information on the process for providing legal notice and the proper documentation for your county.
Additionally, while you do not need to notify them through the service process, you will need to list any minor children.
Step 4: Final Decree
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court may grant the name change any time after 30 days of the filing date.
If the court approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your court clerk. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the court does not approve the request, you may wish to seek legal counsel.
Iowa Name Changes (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. A petition is a formal written application to a court requesting judicial action—in this case, your name change! These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Judges have discretion in granting name changes. Some may have lots of questions and want to see lots of evidence regarding the name change of the child, others may grant a name change as long as there are no objections. The judge with generally consider the best interests of the minor child. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent. You may want to submit evidence like letters from teachers, family, or friends confirming their use of the preferred name, letters from providers confirming the child’s gender identity, etc.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name of Minor Child .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below electronically with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
You will need:
Petition for Change of Name of Minor Child
A certified copy of your birth certificate—instructions to request a certified record are available here
A valid photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Application and Affidavit to Defer Payment of Costs .
Step 3: Notify Parties of Interest
If you are 14 years of age or under, consent is required from both parents listed on your birth certificate.
If you are 14 years of age or older, you will also need to file written consent for the requested name change.
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary, and you can proceed to step 5.
If one parent does not consent to your requested name change, they will still need to be notified through service of a copy of the petition, and a hearing will be scheduled.
After the non-consenting parent has been served with the proper documents, you will need to file proof of service with the district court. Inquire with your county’s court clerk about the local form.
If you are unable to locate the non-consenting parent, you may need to publish notice of your name change in a newspaper of general circulation in the county of their last known address.
Please contact your local circuit court for more information on the service process and the proper documentation for your county.
Step 4: Attend Hearing (if applicable)
If one parent does not consent to your requested name change, a hearing will be scheduled by the court. During the hearing, your petitioning guardian will need to present evidence that 1) the nonconsenting parent has abandoned the minor, 2) the nonconsenting parents has been ordered to contribute to child support and has failed to do so without good cause, OR 3) you have served the nonconsenting parent and they no longer object after receiving proper notice.
Please contact your local circuit court for more information on the proper paperwork to present during your hearing.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here.
At the hearing, the judge may waive the needed consent of both parents, and you may proceed to the next step. If consent is not waived and one parent still objects, you may wish to seek legal counsel and appeal.
Step 5: Final Decree
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court may grant the name change any time after 30 days of the filing date.
If the court approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your court clerk. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the court does not approve the request, you may decide to seek legal counsel.
Iowa Birth Certificates
The Iowa Health and Human Services Department will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments only. Both the former and new names will still appear in your record. The court decree and abstract will become a part of your record on file as well.
When Amending the Name Only
For Iowa-born individuals who complete their court-ordered name change in Iowa, the court will report the name change to the Iowa Health and Human Services Department. They will mail a certified copy of the court order and Abstract to Change Registrant’s Legal Name on Birth Certificate .
The Bureau of Health Statistics will notify you or your attorney in writing of the amendment and the fee required. A non-refundable fee of $15.00 is required for processing the record. There is an additional fee for requesting multiple copies of the amended record.
If you are no longer an Iowa resident , but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Iowa, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate. The Bureau of Health Statistics will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Iowa, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Bureau of Health Statistics.
Phone: (515) 281-4944
Email: vitalrecords@hhs.iowa.gov
Physical address:
Iowa Department of Health and Human Services
Bureau of Health Statistics
Lucas State Office Building
1st Floor, 321 E. 12th Street
Des Moines, Iowa 50319-0075
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
As of July 1, 2025 , the Iowa Health and Human Services Department is no longer issuing gender marker amendments on birth certificates under the passing of SF418 .
OneIowa has created a guide for understanding and navigating SF418.
Iowa Driver's Licenses
In order to update the name on an Iowa driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Iowa residency
The $10.00 licensing fee
A list of acceptable documents is available here . You may need to have your photo retaken.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
For now, the Iowa Department of Transportation is still processing gender marker updates on driver’s licenses and identification cards. There are different requirements for those born in Iowa and those born outside of Iowa. Your driver’s license or ID can display a gender of either F or M. There is currently no option for an X gender marker in Iowa.
To change your gender marker on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
If you were born in Iowa, you will need to submit an amended birth certificate listing your preferred gender. If you were able to amend your birth certificate before the passing of SF418, you should be able to update your gender marker on your ID. A notarized affidavit from a physician will not be accepted.
If you were born outside of Iowa, you will need to submit one of the following to update your gender marker: 1) a certified copy of a birth certificate from another state with an updated gender marker; 2) Consular Report of Birth Abroad with an updated gender marker; 3) a Certificate of Citizenship with an updated gender marker; OR 4) a notarized affidavit from a physician testifying to “sex designation treatment” which can include not limited to surgery, hormone therapy, and mental health counseling. . Further information is available from the Department of Transportation here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
An amended birth certificate with updated gender marker (in-state) OR a notarized affidavit from a licensed physician (out-of-state)
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Iowa residency
The $10.00 licensing fee
A certified copy of your order of name change (if you also wish to update your name)
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your Iowa DOT at 515-237-3268.
Iowa Legislature Code Citations
Changing Names — Iowa Code Ann. § 618.13 & §§ 674.1-674.14
Amendment of Vital Record— IAC 641-99.6(144)
Verification of Change of Sex— Iowa Adm. Code 761-601.5
Memo, Iowa Department of Transportation “Approval of Change of Sex Designation Affidavits for Customers Born Outside Iowa” - https://iowadot.gov/media/7072/download?inline=
Iowa Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name and Gender Marker 101 page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Expand all
Collapse all
OneIowa
Nonprofit organization that advocates for and empowers LGBTQ+ Iowans. They have compiled ample trans-specific resources, including legal resources, such as their identity document guide . Contact them for additional support or for help connecting with a lawyer.
Email: info@oneiowa.org
Phone: 515-288-4019
Iowa Trans Mutual Aid Fund
Fund that provides financial assistance for trans folks, including name change fees. Applications open once per month and are available here .
Email: iowatransmutualaidfund@gmail.com
Lavender Legal Center
Free legal services for trans folks starting the gender marker and name change process. Priority is given to youth and those who have a lower income status. They have compiled additional legal and community resources here .
Email: info@lavenderlegal.org or legalservices@lavenderlegal.org
Phone: 319-214-2076
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe