Back
Who We Are
Board & Staff
In the Community
In the Media
Contact Us
Back
Programs Overview
Mental Health Assistance Program
Group Therapy
SC BLOOM
Gender-Affirming Gear
Trans Love Fund
Rainbow Roots
Social Support Groups
GSA Coalition Support
Discord
Queer Prom
Queer Youth Fest
LGBTeach
Back
About the Store
Donate To Closet Case
FAQs
Why Thrift?
Shop Online
Buy A Closet Case Thrift Store Gift Card
Back
Volunteer
Internship Opportunities
Careers
Host a Fundraiser
Donate
Back
Community Resources
LGBT Glossary A-Z
Coming Out
Tips for Parents
Parent Resources
Resources for Younger Youth
Tips for Educators
Tips for Straight Allies
Tips for Trans Allies
Downloadable Support Materials
Everywhere is Queer
The Trans in the South Guide
Scroll
OUR MISSION
We Are Family is South Carolina's oldest nonprofit that provides life-affirming and life-saving programs for LGBTQ+ young people that have a lasting and measurable impact, with a focus on those who are BIPOC and/or low-income.
Learn More!
Events Calendar
WAF PROGRAMS
SC BLOOM Leadership Retreat 2025: WAF Signature Event
In July-August 2025, WAF, along with our partners at the Harriet Hancock Center and Uplift Outreach, hosted our SC BLOOM Wellness & Leadership Retreat . We brought 20 LGBTQ+ young people from throughout the state to Columbia, SC for a transformative four-day experience!
Their time was packed with opportunities to learn, explore, and build community, including a private tour of the Richmond main library, and a banned books teach-in at Queer Haven Bookstore; workshops on gender-affirming care and sexual health led by Transgender Awareness Alliance and PALSS; and a powerful museum session on Black artists and cultural legacy, hosted at Columbia Museum of Art.
With every moment -- from meals shared to knowledge passed -- we saw a vision of queer youth liberation rooted in joy, safety, and fierce imagination. SC BLOOM continues to remind us: when we gather, we grow.
Follow Us!
“
I’ve never felt more understood than I do with We Are Family. They’ve been my anchor, reminding me that I belong in this world.
Skylar, 16