Defending Freedom and Justice For All New Mexicans.
The Latest
News & Commentary
The Case for Investing in New Mexico&#039;s Youth
The ACLU of New Mexico, along with partners, is prioritizing holistic solutions in juvenile justice — because we know these are the approaches that are safest and most effective for our communities.
News & Commentary
New Mexico Must Keep Its Promise on Civil Rights
Five years ago, New Mexico made a promise.
When our state passed the New Mexico Civil Rights Act, we declared that the rights guaranteed by the New Mexico Constitution meant something.
Event | In-Person
For the People 2026
Join the ACLU of New Mexico for an evening honoring bold action, brave voices, and the power of community.
Oct 22, 2026 | 5:30 PM (MT)
Action | Take Action
Volunteer with the ACLU of New Mexico
Tell us a little bit about yourself and we'll work to match you with volunteer opportunities as they become available.
Get Involved
Press Releases
Jul 1, 2026
Billboards Celebrate NM Civil Rights Act Fifth Anniversary
To commemorate the five-year anniversary of the New Mexico Civil Rights Act (NMCRA), the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of New Mexico has placed five billboards praising the landmark law across Albuquerque.
Jun 30, 2026
Los Lunas Parents Win Settlement After Threatened by School District Over Facebook Page
May 19, 2026
ACLU, Joined by State Legislators, Asks NM Supreme Court to Halt CYFD Directive Separating Newborns from Their Families
Emergency petition filed late Monday challenges directive that bypasses state and federal law and harms children.
Issues We're Monitoring
Criminal Legal Reform
Corrections Reform
Free Speech
Immigrants’ Rights
Indigenous Justice
Reproductive Freedom
View All Issues
Know Your Rights When Protesting
The First Amendment protects your right to assemble and express your views through protest. However, police and other government officials are allowed to place certain narrow restrictions on the exercise of speech rights. Make sure you’re prepared by brushing up on your rights before heading out into the streets.
Explore Your Rights
Make an impact
Take Action
Today, years of hard-fought civil liberty protections are under threat.
To influence lawmakers, we need everyone to get involved.
Volunteer with the ACLU of New Mexico
Get Involved
Get Legal Help
Get Legal Help
Speaker Requests
Request Support
Action {{ slotProps.activeSlide }} of
3
Stay Informed
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement .
English