Skip to content Back to Top
Home / Self-Help / Family Law / About the Family Law Self-Help Center
About the Family Law Self-Help Center
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Who can use the Family Law Self-Help Center?
How do I get help from the Family Law Self-Help Center?
What are the helpline hours?
What happens when I call?
Are there videos I can watch to understand more about family law?
&#9658; Who can use the Family Law Self-Help Center?
All people seeking information about Alaska family law who are NOT represented by a lawyer.
An Important Caution
The Self-Help Center does not provide legal advice or represent you in court. You are responsible for your own case. The Center is staffed by skilled neutral people who provide valuable legal information and educational materials as a public service.
There is no attorney-client relationship between you and the staff. The Center does not take the place of an attorney, and
cannot advise you on strategy or tell you what to say in court. You are strongly encouraged to seek the services of a private
attorney for legal advice and strategy.
Your communications with the staff are not confidential and the staff is available to help both parties.
The Center personnel are not acting on behalf of the court or any judge. The judge in your case may require you to change a
form or to submit a different one. The judge is not required to grant your request.
&#9658; How do I get help from the Family Law Self-Help Center?
The Center provides services in 2 ways:
this website which includes detailed information and forms for each stage of the case
a statewide toll-free telephone Helpline which is staffed by highly trained court employees who can speak to you about your case. The Helpline is very busy. We encourage you to read the information on this website before calling - the answer to your question may be easier to find than you think. If you decide to call for help with filling out a form, be sure to print it out and have all of your other paperwork handy.
If you need help with an existing Alaska court case, please have your case number when you call the FLSHC . If you do not have the case number, you may look it up .
&#9658; What are the helpline hours?
Telephone Helpline Hours:
Monday - Friday: 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Statewide Telephone Helpline Number:
(907) 264-0851
Or, if you need a free call and are calling from an Alaska phone number:
(866) 279-0851 (In Alaska, but outside the Municipality of Anchorage)
The Helpline is very busy and we know it can be difficult to get through. We encourage you to read the website to see if you can find the information you need. Please keep trying the Helpline if you need to talk with a facilitator about your case. Once you speak with a facilitator, you will get her direct phone number and email address to make it easier to communicate directly. We look forward to helping you.
The Center staff does not see customers in the office, but only talks to them on the phone.
&#9658; What happens when I call?
When you call, staff will describe what we can and cannot do. Then, we will ask you some basic questions to better understand what is going on in your case. This will help us give you appropriate information about forms and procedures to help you handle your case. The staff will also give you referral information to other legal and non-legal resources that might be helpful. Staff will provide follow-up assistance as appropriate.
&#9658; Are there videos I can watch to understand more about family law?
Yes. The Family Law Self-Help Center has produced 3 sets of videos:
Divorce and Custody Cases in Alaska: English |
Español |
Tagalog
Hearing and Trial Preparation for Family Law Cases: English
Domestic Violence Protective Orders: English |
Español |
Yup'ik
Each video series has several short clips on specific topics so you can watch just the subject you are interested in or watch the whole series.
Calendars
Forms
Jury Service
Pay Online
Request Copies
Search Cases
Glossaries / Legal Terms
Language Assistance
Legal Notices
Locations & Hours
Represent Yourself
Restitution Collection
Accessibility
Careers
Contact Us
Court System Information
Site Index
Terms of Use