Skip to main content
World-Class,
Empowering
Healthcare
APLA Health offers quality healthcare, life-saving services, camaraderie, compassion, and comfort to all who come through our doors.
Caring for each other is what makes us a community.
Explore
our services
Defend Care,
Demand Action
AIDS Walk is equal parts celebration and demonstration: a chance to honor how far the response to the epidemic has come and to bring much-needed attention to how much further it has to go.
For those who are low-income, uninsured, or pushed to the margins, HIV remains a crisis. We refuse to accept a system where staying healthy depends on your income or ZIP code. Donate or register today!
Learn More
Top Stories
Long Live the Queens: "Best in Drag Show" Returns to the Orpheum to Support Housing for People with HIV
Drag pageant parody's all-stars edition brings back six former winners and runners-up for an ultimate showdown on Sunday, October 4, benefiting APLA Health's Alliance for Housing & Healing LOS ANGELES, CA (September 10, 2026) &ndash; One of Los Angeles' most anticipated and outrageous events is raising the stakes! On Sunday, October 4, 2026, Best in Drag Show...
Keep Reading
AIDS Walk Los Angeles Returns October 18
With the theme &ldquo;Defend Care, Demand Action,&rdquo; the walk spotlights the urgent need for affordable HIV care, prevention, and treatment LOS ANGELES (August 25, 2026) - On Sunday, October 18 at 10:30 a.m., thousands of Angelenos will fill West Hollywood Park for the 42nd annual AIDS Walk Los Angeles, a fundraising event celebrating life, honoring...
Keep Reading
Forty Years of Open Doors
How our dental program became a lifeline &mdash; and why it faces its next great test In the spring of 1984, two dentists sat in a kitchen in Glendale and asked each other a simple question: who was going to take care of the patients no one else would see? Dr. Jon Bauer and Dr....
Keep Reading
More NEws
Best in Drag Show
Best in Drag Show is hard to describe because there’s nothing else quite like it. Part pageant, part comedy show, and part train wreck, it can also move you to tears because of the compassion and extraordinary heart on display.
Join us Sunday, October 4, and remember—all the money raised helps provide housing for people with HIV!
Learn More
Healthcare
Services
Our dedicated team of healthcare professionals is committed to providing personalized and compassionate free and low-cost medical services, tailored specifically to meet the unique needs of each individual we serve.
Learn More
Sexual Health Services
Our comprehensive sexual health services not only encourage individuals to have enjoyable and fulfilling experiences but also provide a range of options for testing, treatment, as well as access to PrEP and PEP. Whether you're exploring preventive measures or seeking assistance with testing and treatment, our dedicated team is here to support you in making informed decisions that prioritize your sexual well-being.
Learn More
HIV Support
Services
For people with HIV, we're your ally in navigating the support systems for housing, food, and benefits. We are committed to assisting you in securing essential resources, ensuring you have everything you need for a stable and healthy life.
Learn More
Community
Programs
We provide a welcoming and safe space where individuals can connect with like-minded individuals dedicated to enhancing their physical, mental, sexual, and spiritual well-being. Join us in fostering a supportive community that values holistic health, and discover a space where you can freely engage with others who share your interests.
Learn More
Locations
Eight Locations
to Serve You.
8 locations in Los Angeles County
APLA Health Locations
Stay Updated.
Keep up with all of the latest news from APLA Health, get advance notice about upcoming special events, receive our news updates, and register for advocacy alerts.
Company
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Name
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Submit
Donate. Advocate.
Every gift to APLA Health provides critical, life-saving care to people across Los Angeles County — but monthly support through our Heartbeat Giving Circle ensures that care never stops.
Donate Now When you include APLA Health in your estate plans, you help sustain vital healthcare and services for people who rely on us—now and in the future.
Learn More
Donate
Now