This site uses necessary, analytics and social media cookies to improve your experience and deliver targeted advertising.
Accept all cookies
Reject all cookies
Skip to content
“As a proud gay man, I’m very thankful to have an organization like Vivent Health that allows me to be on PrEP. It’s literally a confidence-booster!”
CJ, Vivent Health PrEP patient
What is PrEP?
PrEP, or Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis, is a prescription medication that can prevent you from getting HIV if you’re exposed to the virus. PrEP can be taken as an oral pill or a long-acting injection.
99%
When taken as prescribed, PrEP is 99% effective at preventing HIV through sex.
Learn if PrEP is right for you.
Who should take PrEP?
PrEP could be right for you if you:
Do not have HIV
Have a sexual partner who is living with HIV
Do not use condoms regularly
Inject drugs or share drug injection equipment
Are there side effects?
PrEP is safe, but it may cause side effects, including stomachache, diarrhea, and headache, which usually go away over time.
If you are taking PrEP and your symptoms are severe or don’t go away, call your doctor.
Can I afford PrEP?
At Vivent Health, we work to make sure that cost is not a barrier to receiving care and treatment.
How do I get PrEP?
Schedule an appointment at Vivent Health to learn more and find out if PrEP is right for you.
What should I expect at my first PrEP visit?
At your first appointment, you will likely:
Get tested for HIV and other STIs
Discuss how to use PrEP
Do bloodwork
Review your health history
Complete paperwork
Get a prescription for PrEP
Take charge of your sexual health. Make an appointment today.
Hours and services vary by site. Call your local health center and our team will connect you with the care that’s right for you.
Find a clinic
https://viventhealth.org/services/prep/
Click to print
Share this page via Email
Share this page on Pinterest
Share this page on Facebook
Share this page on Twitter
Mobile Menu Overlay
Search
Enter to search
We've detected you might be speaking a different language. Do you want to change to:
English
English
Spanish
Change Language
Close and do not switch language
We've detected you might be speaking a different language. Do you want to change to:
English
English
Spanish
Change Language