Skip to content
What is TransVisible Montana?
TransVisible Montana is a statewide collective of transgender, non-binary, and Two Spirit Montanans with support from local organizations and communities. We provide leadership development, visibility, and public education through free and low cost services to expand liberation for all.
We value lived experience, decentralized collective power, education for liberation, and anti-racism.
DONATE
REGISTER FOR LEADERSHIP RETREAT 2025!
Be An Ally
Learn how to be an ally and best respect members of the transgender, non-binary, and two spirit community.
RESOURCES
Join Us
Are you a transgender, non-binary, or two spirit Montanan who would like to join our collective?
MEMBER INTEREST FORM
Get in Touch
Get additional information or ask us questions! Email us at transvisblemt@gmail.com or&#8230;
CONTACT US
TransVisible Montana is located on the contemporary and ancestral homeland of the Blackfoot / Niitsítapi ᖹᐟᒧᐧᒣᑯ, Cayuse, Umatilla and Walla Walla, Séliš-Ql̓ispé, Ktunaxa ɁamakɁis / Kootenai, Apsáalooke (Crow), Tséstho’e (Cheyenne), Očhéthi Šakówiŋ (Lakota), and Michif Piyii (Métis) people.
Montana is currently home to the Niitsitapi Blackfeet reservation, the Apsáalooke Crow reservation, the Flathead Indian reservation, (home to the Salish, Pend d&#8217;Oreille and the Kootenai people ) the A’aninin Nakoda Fort Belknap reservation, (home to the Assiniboine, or Nakoda, and the Gros Ventre or A&#8217;aninin people) the Nakoda Dakota Fort Peck reservation, (home to the Assiniboine and Sioux people ) the Tsetsehesestahasesotaahe Northern Cheyenne reservation, (home to the Northern Cheyenne and other people) and the Little Shell or Chippewa people .
Support TransVisible Montana and empower transgender, non-binary, and Two Spirit people all across Montana!
DONATE
United Way of Missoula County
Montana Women Vote
Forward Montana
Share this:
Share on X (Opens in new window)
X
Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Facebook
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:
Cookie Policy
Subscribe
Subscribed
TransVisible Montana
Sign me up
Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now.
TransVisible Montana
Subscribe
Subscribed
Sign up
Log in
Copy shortlink
Report this content
View post in Reader
Manage subscriptions
Collapse this bar
Loading Comments...
Write a Comment...
Email (Required)
Name (Required)
Website