LGBTQ Rights
The ACLU fights discrimination and moves public opinion through the courts, legislatures and public education across five issue areas — and beyond.
Share this page
The ACLU works to ensure that lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people can live openly without discrimination and enjoy equal rights, personal autonomy, and freedom of expression and association, across five key issue areas:
Relationships
Youth and Schools
Parenting
Gender Identity and Expression and Discrimination in Employment
Housing
Know Your Rights
Nov 06, 2025
LGBTQ Rights |
+1 Issue
Know Your Rights: Use of Names, Pronouns, and Restrooms in Public Schools
The ACLU of Arkansas is committed to continuing to protect students’ rights — including the rights of LGBTQ students — to a learning environment free from bullying and harassment.
Mapping Attacks on LGBTQ Rights in U.S. State Legislatures in 2026
In the last few years, states have advanced a record number of bills that attack LGBTQ rights, especially transgender youth. The ACLU is tracking these attacks and working with our national network of affiliates to support LGBTQ people everywhere.
Coe v. Blanche
Three New York families with adolescent transgender children and two transgender New Yorkers filed a class action lawsuit to protect patient identifying and sensitive health information from being turned over to the Department of Justice in response to federal grand jury subpoenas issued as part of a widespread effort to "end” necessary health care for transgender adolescents.
The Latest
Know Your Rights
Know Your Rights: Use of Names, Pronouns, and Restrooms in Public Schools
News & Commentary
Arkansas&#039;s Ban on Gender-Affirming Care: What Comes Next
The fight over healthcare for transgender youth in Arkansas has taken a devastating turn.
News & Commentary
A Review of the 2025 Arkansas Legislative Session
As the dust begins to settle on the 2025 Arkansas legislative session, we salute all people and organizations who called, wrote, testified and supported good proposals while opposing the bad.
Press Release
Federal Court Strikes Down Unconstitutional Provisions of Arkansas’s Censorship Law
Today, in a resounding victory for free speech and intellectual freedom, a federal district court struck down key provisions of Arkansas’s censorship law, Act 372, as unconstitutional.
Cases, Campaigns & Legislation
Filter by type
Cases
Legislations
Campaigns (0)
Court Case
Apr 30, 2024
Gallagher v. Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration
The ACLU of Arkansas has initiated a lawsuit against the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration (DFA) on behalf of five plaintiffs, contesting a recent emergency rule that restricts transgender and nonbinary individuals' ability to self-identify their gender on driver’s licenses.
Court Case
Dec 7, 2023
Brandt et al v. Griffin et al
Four families of transgender youth and two doctors have challenged an Arkansas law that would prohibit healthcare professionals from providing or even referring transgender young people for medically necessary health care. The law would also bar any state funds or insurance coverage for gender-affirming health care for transgender people under 18, and it would allow private insurers to refuse to cover gender-affirming care for people of any age. The lawsuit, filed in federal court, alleges that House Bill 1570 is a violation of the U.S. Constitution.
Court Case
Apr 16, 2010
Cole v. Arkansas: LGBTQ Equality in Parenting
VICTORY! Cole v. Arkansas challenged Act 1 of 2008, a ballot initiative that prohibited fostering or adoption of children by unmarried couples; since Arkansas did not recognize the marriage of same-sex couples, this included not only unmarried same-sex couples, but same-sex couples married elsewhere. The intent of the law was to categorically ban same sex couples from consideration, without regard to the needs or relationships of the child to the potential foster or adoptive parents, or their suitability as parents.
Court Case
Dec 1, 2016
Smith v. Pavan: Birth Records for Children of Same-Sex Couples Pre-Marriage
Same-sex couples who had children before marriage equality was the law of the land filed suit in state court in July 2015 in order to amend their children’s birth certificates to include the names of both parents without having to procure a court order, as the state required, although non-biological fathers in opposite-sex marriages are added to Arkansas birth certificates upon request and without a court order. After a lower court ruled that the Department of Health’s refusal to amend the birth certificates violated the couples’ rights to equal protection, the state appealed to the Arkansas Supreme Court, which overturned the ruling.
Make an impact
Take Action
Today, years of hard-fought civil liberty protections are under threat.
To influence lawmakers, we need everyone to get involved.
Get Legal Help
Request Assistance
Sign Up for Action Alerts
Get Action Alerts
Action {{ slotProps.activeSlide }} of
2
Stay Informed
Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement.
By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement .
English