IBM WebSphere Portal
Ohio Department of Insurance
top-help
odx-helplink-label
top-search
odx-searchbox-label
Type in your search keywords and hit enter to submit or escape to close
top-search
top-close
{}
Web Content Viewer
Actions
Medicare Checkup Events
Learn what's new for 2027, ways to save money, and how to compare 2027 plans! Medicare Open Enrollment: October 15 - December 7.
odx-read-more
about the article: Medicare Checkup Events
Severe Weather Toolkit
Information to help you prepare for severe weather and recover from any damage.
odx-read-more
about the article: Severe Weather Toolkit
Medicare
Get information about Medicare, schedule one-on-one counseling, attend online webinars, and more!
odx-read-more
about the article: Medicare
Mental Health Insurance
Understanding health insurance coverage for mental health and substance use disorders.
odx-read-more
about the article: Mental Health Insurance
Surprise Billing Toolkit
A toolkit of resources to help consumers, providers, and insurers understand and navigate the surprise billing law.
odx-read-more
about the article: Surprise Billing Toolkit
/wps/portal/gov/odi/home/ads/top-ad
Welcome to the Ohio Department of Insurance! Our mission? To provide consumer protection through education and fair but vigilant regulation while promoting a stable and competitive environment for insurers. Whether you're a consumer, agent, or insurer, we're here to provide you with resources, expert guidance, and responsive support.
Featured Content
How We Serve Ohioans
Free, objective assistance is available to help Ohioans navigate insurance coverage, resolve issues, and understand their rights.
Thin Blue Line Benefits Association, LLC - Claims and Legal Action Update
Insurer taken to court over first responders' unpaid medical bills - learn more and find help here.
Emerging Products and Innovation Initiative
Ohio's initiative to help insurers get emerging products to market that serve the needs of today's world while protecting Ohio consumers.
Annual Title Filing Instructions
Application for agents/agencies to electronically file their annual title agent/agency review forms with ODI.
Sign Up to Receive ODI News and Information
Sign up to receive news and information from the Ohio Department of Insurance.
Public Records Request
Request public records from the Ohio Department of Insurance.
Communications, News, and Media
Find media contacts and information, as well as the latest news, toolkits, resources and publications here.
Fraud and Enforcement
Investigating allegations of unlicensed insurance transactions, potential agent misconduct, insurance fraud and crimes related to insurance.
Government Affairs
Works with state and federal lawmakers, national regulators, and manages stakeholder engagement for the Ohio Department of Insurance.
odx-news
odx-all-news
NEWS RELEASE: Ohio Housing Finance Agency Celebrates June as National Homeownership Month
Partners with the Ohio Departments of Commerce and Insurance to help Ohioans realize their dreams of homeownership.
June 11, 2026
Fraud Prevention Month: Ohioans Urged to Protect Themselves from Insurance Fraud and Report Scams
Governor Mike DeWine has declared April as Fraud Prevention Month in Ohio.
April 02, 2026
PUCO, Ohio EPA, and Ohio Department of Insurance Promote "Fix a Leak Week" 2026
State of Ohio agencies are reminding Ohioans to check for and repair small household leaks that can waste water and lead to expensive damage.
March 17, 2026
odx-all-news
odx-events
odx-all-events
Sep
25
Medicare Checkup Event - Erie County
Learn About Medicare or 2027
Erie County Senior Center
620 E Water St, Sandusky, OH, 44870
Sep
28
Medicare Checkup Event - Paulding County
Learn About Medicare for 2027
Paulding County Senior Center
401 E Jackson St, Paulding, OH, 45879
Sep
29
Medicare Open Enrollment Town Hall
Join us for a live, virtual Medicare town hall to learn about upcoming Medicare Open Enrollment and changes for 2027!
ONLINE EVENT
Sep
29
Medicare Checkup Event - Coshocton County
Learn About Medicare for 2027
Coshocton Senior Center
201 Browns Lane, Coshocton, OH, 43812
odx-all-events
odx-spotlight
ODI Media Coverage
Media Coverage from State and Nationwide Media Outlets
learn-more
Expand All Sections
Web Content Viewer
Actions
top-menu
top-close
top-help
top-search
odx-searchbox-label
Submit your search
Close
Complementary Content
${title} ${badge}
${loading}