IBM WebSphere Portal
Ohio Department
odx-login
top-help
odx-helplink-label
top-search
odx-searchbox-label
Type in your search keywords and hit enter to submit or escape to close
top-search
top-close
{}
Web Content Viewer
Actions
Ohio Benefits
Ohio Benefits works to serve Ohioans through a variety of assistance programs.
odx-topic-ads-title
Access Ohio Benefits Self-Service Portal
Use OHID to log in and apply for or access your existing benefits.
Check my Eligibility
See if you may be eligible for cash, food, medical, or early care and education assistance.
Policy
Review the latest policy updates, eligibility rules, and guidance for Ohio Benefits.
SNAP
The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), helps people with low incomes buy healthy food.
Cash
Ohio Works First (OWF) is the financial assistance portion of the state's Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF) program.
Training Resources
Access quick guides, job aids, and learning materials to support program knowledge and delivery.
Key Contacts
Start here to learn how to become one of our partners and how you can help promote the health and well-being of Ohio's residents.
Medicaid
Ohio Medicaid and related programs improve wellness and health outcomes by providing health care coverage for eligible individuals.
Community Partner Hub
Find tools and information to help community partners connect residents to available benefits and services.
Early Care and Education
Early Care and Education helps families pay for child care and education.
Ohio Benefits works to serve Ohioans through a variety of additional programs and supportive services.
Explore Services
odx-divisions
Medicaid Managed Care Open Enrollment
Veteran Benefits
OHID
Register to Vote
Update Contact Info
Ohio Means Jobs
Unemployment
Communication Services
EBT Card Protections
Foodbanks
Community Partner Resources
odx-video-player-header
All Videos
How to Apply
This video reviews step-by-step instructions on how to apply for benefits (Cash, Food, Medical, or Child Care Assistance) within the Ohio Benefits Self-Service Portal.
1/24/26
Eligibility Self-Assessment
This video reviews the functionality of the Ohio Benefits Self-Service Portal Eligibility Self-Assessment. This tool helps users identify what resources they may be eligible for.
1/24/26
How to Report a Change
This video reviews step-by-step instructions on how to report a change on a case within an existing Ohio Benefits Self-Service account.
1/24/26
How to Upload Documents
This video reviews step-by-step instructions on how to upload and view verification documents through the Ohio Benefits Self-Service Portal.
1/24/26
Request a Change in Child Care Program
This video demonstrates a walkthrough on how to request a change to a Child Care Program through the Ohio Benefits Self-Service Portal.
1/24/26
Introducing E-Signature
E-Signature is a new time-saving option that makes your phone application process with your caseworker easier and faster.
1/24/26
Introducing Document Upload
Document Upload allows you to upload your verification documents on your smartphone while on the phone with an agent.
1/24/26
I'm a new Ohio Benefits Self-Service Portal User without an OHID
Step-by-step guidance for users with no existing Ohio Benefits Self-Service Portal account without an OHID.
1/24/26
All Videos
odx-news
odx-all-news
Introducing ONVP
Your county agency may use the Ohio NextGen360 Verification Platform (ONVP) to verify your income and/or identity.
September 21, 2026
New Income and Identity Verification Tool Effective June 30, 2026
Effective June 30, 2026, your county agency may use the Ohio NextGen360 Verification Platform (ONVP) to verify your income and/or identity.
June 30, 2026
The Ohio Preschool Program (OPP) is Now Live!
The Early Childhood Education Grant is now called the Ohio Preschool Program (OPP).
While the name has changed, the program is still the same.
June 15, 2026
odx-all-news
odx-spotlight
Scam Alert!
Please be aware of skimming and phishing scams!
There are reports of criminals across the country targeting SNAP and cash recipients by stealing benefit card information or sending phony text messages to obtain EBT card numbers and pins and steal SNAP benefits.
Click on this alert for more information about this fraudulent activity.
odx-spotlight
Find Your Local County Agency
Find contact and location information for your County Department of Job and Family Services (CDJFS) for help with cash, food, medical and child care assistance or adult protective services.
learn-more
Expand All Sections
Web Content Viewer
Actions
top-menu
top-close
top-help
top-search
odx-searchbox-label
Submit your search
Close
Complementary Content
${title} ${badge}
${loading}