Massachusetts Birth Certificate
Here’s how to update your Massachusetts birth certificate.
Get prepared
To amend a birth certificate, you will need:
An affidavit indicating your sex and name
A parent or guardian must complete this form if the record change is for a minor
A court-certified copy of your legal name change , if you are updating your name
In Massachusetts, you can only update your birth certificate if you are also updating the sex designation. You cannot update a birth certificate if you are only changing names.
Do I need to update my birth certificate? In most cases, no. A birth certificate matching your current name and gender marker is a highly uncommon requirement for other forms. Not all states allow updating birth certificates, and many trans people forego the process due to its limited utility. However, if you decide to update your birth certificate, we are here to support you through the process!
Fill out forms
Once finished, a PDF will be downloaded for you to review and sign.
This form helps you fill out name change documents, including: Applicant Affidavit in Support of Amendment of a Birth Certificate for Sex (R-116)
Prefer to do it yourself? Download blank forms
Takes about 4–9 minutes . We’ll provide guidance for common questions.
Responses are securely stored in Chrome on this Apple Macintosh . For security, your information never leaves this device.
Gather funds or waive fees
You can waive court fees if you meet the eligibility requirements in Massachusetts . The Massachusetts Transgender Political Coalition also offers financial assistance through its Identity Document Assistance network.
File your documents
You can file your documents by mail or in person.
Submit by mail
To submit by mail, gather:
Your completed, notarized affidavit
A check or money order payable to Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Your court-certified name change, if applicable
Cost Amount
Amendment fee (optional) $50
Certified copy of amended record (by mail) (optional) $32
Total Free
Mail all documents to:
Registry of Vital Records and Statistics
150 Mt. Vernon St.
1st Floor
Dorchester, MA 02125
File in person
Make an appointment with the Registry of Vital Records and Statistics by emailing vip-amend@state.ma.us or calling (617) 740-2600 .
Cost Amount
Amendment fee (optional) $50
Certified copy of amended record (in person) (optional) $20
Total Free
Amendments may also be made in your city or town of birth. Please contact the local city or town clerk, or Boston Registrar, for more information.
References
Massachusetts Registry of Vital Records and Statistics. Amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject .