Skip to main content
Search
Submit
Driver&#039;s License, Name Change
You are required by law to notify the Vermont Department of Motor Vehicles within 30 days of any change to your address or name.
Change Your Name
Individuals
You must apply in person in order to have your name changed on your license or non-driver ID card. To obtain a corrected license, please provide the following documentation:
Documentation of your new name in the form of:
An original or certified copy of a marriage license/certificate
Civil union certificate, or
Court order clearly stating your new name
Completed Name/Address Change Form (form #VL-021)
NOTE: If your License or ID is Real ID compliant we are required to verify your name and date of birth via Social Security Online Verification (SSOLV) . You must update your records with the Social Security Administration prior to processing a name change at DMV. Before a license or ID can be issued in the new name, SSA records must be updated.
Businesses
A change of company name requires a Change of Name Certification from the Office of Secretary of State .
New
Renew
Change Address
Download the PDF form to your computer and then open it with Adobe Reader
Related Forms & Information
Title
Sort descending
ID#
Description
Commercial License/Permit Application
VL-031
To apply for the issuance of any new, renewal, replacement or correction of any and all CDL licenses/permits/endorsements.
Non-Driver ID Application - English
VL-017
To apply for a new, renewed, replaced, or enhanced Non-Driver Identification Card.
FAQs.
Can I change my name online?
No. Name changes must be done in person at a DMV office location.
How do I change the name on my license/ID?
If your name is different than the one shown on your birth certificate or other document used to establish identity and date of birth, you must provide certified copies of the legal documents that connect the name on the document used to establish identity and date of birth to your current name. The following documents are acceptable.
Court-ordered name change
This includes:
Orders under a petition for a name change.
Orders for name change in a divorce decree or decree of annulment.
Orders for name change in a decree of adoption.
The court order must contain your prior full legal name, your court-ordered full legal name and your date of birth. It must be a certified copy and have the stamp or raised seal of the issuing court.
Marriage certificate
The marriage certificate must be issued by a state office of vital statistics or equivalent agency in the state or country where you were married and must be a certified copy with a stamp or raised seal of the issuing authority. A church, chapel, or similarly issued certificate is not acceptable.
In all cases, the documents must connect the name shown on your birth certificate or other document used to establish identity and date of birth to your current name. You do not have to document a complete listing of all the names you may have previously used, as long as the documents you provide clearly connect the two.
Social Security Administration
If you need to correct or update information at the Social Security Administration, do so several days before you apply for a Driver's License or ID card. For information on how to do this, visit socialsecurity.gov.
How do I change the name(s) on a vehicle title?
The title to be changed must contain owner information that matches the owner information on the current vehicle registration. You must complete a registration application form providing an updated vehicle odometer reading and updated owner information. Each individual currently listed on the title must sign on the back of the title (as "sellers") and fill in the name of the "buyer(s)." If there are two owners, you must indicate the relationship of the two owners.
See types of vehicle ownership for more information.
August 26, 2026
Name Change
Featured Article
August 18, 2026
IRP and IFTA New Account Processing Delays
IRP and IFTA New Account Processing Delays
The Vermont Department of Motor Vehicles Commercial Vehicle Office is advising customers to expect delays in the processing of new International Registration Plan (IRP) and International Fuel Tax Agreement (IFTA) accounts . Please note that before a new IRP or IFTA account can be established, Vermont is required to verify that the applicant meets applicable residency and/or established place of business requirements . This process requires the submission and review of supporting documentation.
Customers applying for a new account should be prepared to provide the required documentation and allow additional time for review and processing. Applications that are incomplete or require additional documentation may take longer to process or be able to obtain their credentials.
To help avoid unnecessary delays:
Submit all required documentation with your application.
Ensure documents are current, legible, and clearly identify the applicant and Vermont location.
Respond promptly to any requests from the Commercial Vehicle Office for additional information or documentation.
Do not assume that an application is complete until all required residency or established place of business requirements have been verified.
The Commercial Vehicle Office appreciates your patience and cooperation as we complete these required verification procedures. These measures help ensure Vermont remains compliant with IRP and IFTA requirements and maintains the integrity of the registration and fuel tax programs.