0
← Back to programs
Take Care with BAGLY’s
HEALTH &
WELLNESS
We believe LGBTQ+ youth deserve access : whether that be to a supportive community to explore their identity or to high-quality, barrier-free services. That’s why we offer FREE mental health therapy, harm- and risk- reduction resources, and testing!
Fast Link: Book your Clinic Appointment here
Fast Link :Sign up for BAGLY Tea Time (therapy) here
CLINICAL SERVICES
We’re all about providing you with the best care we can. That means being queer and trans friendly, youth-centered, and free-to-access.
The Clinic at BAGLY
Our clinic is housed inside our Community Center to make it super easy to attend your appointments…how cool is that? We offer free HIV/STI testing, PreP navigation, MassHealth enrollment, and counseling & treatment referrals.
Services available for LGBTQ+ youth and young adults ages 29 and under.
Learn more about The Clinic at BAGLY
Easy-to-Access Therapy
LGBTQ+ youth deserve access to high-quality, barrier-free mental health therapies - that’s why our services are FREE with no proof of insurance or identification!
BAGLY Tea Time
BAGLY’s confidential, drop-in therapy session with a Licensed Independent Clinical Social Worker (LICSW). Appointments available in person and online every Wednesday from 3-7pm.
Sign up for BAGLY Tea Time →
MAKE FRIENDS AND FIND SUPPORT
Our social support services offer young people a chance to connect with new friends and trusted adults, explore their identities, and enjoy safe, fun events led by their peers.
Health Education & Risk Reduction Team
The Health Education And Risk Reduction Team (HEARRT) is BAGLY’s youth-led health promotion group, working to change negative health outcomes within our community.
Our Care In Action (new in 2026!)
BAGLY understands that LGBTQ+ sexual and reproductive health isn’t always covered through in-school health programs, but we're here to help.
Join us for our new sexual health workshop series, Our Care In Action! Designed with LGBTQ+ youth in mind, this series also offers valuable resources, support, and guidance for caregivers.
Learn more by clicking here !