Skip to content
Loading...
Glass Lawler Mental Health
Complimentary mental health services & support groups for LGBTQ+ adults
CONTACT US
Glass Lawler Mental Health
Welcome to Glass Lawler Mental Health!
Glass Lawler Mental Health provides free therapeutic services to LGBTQ+ adults (18+). Clients of Glass Lawler Mental Health receive culturally responsive and affirming services, including 12 individual counseling sessions, with no referral or insurance required. Referral resources to other affirming therapeutic services or community resources will also be provided to clients.
The program also hosts monthly peer support groups and community social events in a welcoming, affirming environment.
Glass Lawler Mental Health is named for the late Carmah Lawler and her wife, Kathy Glass . The couple was very politically active and involved in the local community. Carmah was also a social worker and a passionate activist.
In a 2023 survey of LGBTQ+ Denver residents, 70% of respondents reported experiencing a mental health challenge in the past year. Glass Lawler Mental Health intends to address the significant need for LGBTQ-specific mental healthcare in our community, and strives to make getting help more accessible to all through our free services.
Services Interest Form
How it Works
Sign up for services
Using our new Simple Practice dashboard, you can sign up to receive services from Glass Lawler Mental Health. Once you are deemed eligible, you will be asked to complete an intake form to determine what you'd like to focus on in your therapy sessions, and the severity of your symptoms. All scheduling will also be completed using Simple Practice.
Services Interest Form
Receive 12 free therapy sessions
You will be matched with one of our welcoming, affirming therapists to complete your 12 free sessions with. Hybrid options are available for sessions. If you choose to attend in-person, your sessions will take place in one of our comfortable counseling rooms (scroll down for photos). Your therapist will work with you to determine a frequency for your therapy sessions that matches your needs.
Create a discharge plan with your therapist
Your therapist will work with you to create a discharge plan, including a safety plan, referral to other LGBTQ+ affirming therapeutic services and/or to other community resources. Your therapist will ensure you are connected with any services you may need, such as housing, legal or medical advice, substance use treatment, and additional behavioral health services.
Please Read: Services Disclaimer
Thank you for choosing Glass Lawler Mental Health. This program is designed to support individuals with mild to moderate mental health concerns. We do not provide services for severe mental health conditions, including but not limited to active suicidal ideation, severe depression, psychosis, or any other acute mental health crises. If you are experiencing any of these severe symptoms, Glass Lawler Mental Health may not be fit to offer you care. However, we have built a referral network of mental health professionals that are better equipped for this level of care.
If you or someone you know is experiencing severe symptoms or is in crisis, please seek immediate assistance by contacting emergency services or visiting the nearest emergency room.
Once your intake paperwork has been fully completed, please wait to receive an e-mail from us before attempting to schedule an appointment. The scheduled appointment will not occur until we have contacted you with further information on scheduling.
Our referral process is defined by our community members' interest to continue to receive services. During the 12th session, a community member has the option of coming in for a referral meeting. This meeting is characterized by reflecting on progress, discussing referrals and their fit with the community member's needs, and deciding on whether the community member would like to continue. Once a decision has been made, the clinician will send the community member the clinicians that may be a good fit or they will discontinue services.
See our Space
The Center on Colfax has two newly renovated rooms where in-person therapy sessions will be held. Each room is equipped with comfortable seating, soft lighting with brightness & color temperature options, positive messaging, and greenery.
2025 Mental Health Awareness Barbeque - Visit the Flickr Album
Upcoming Support Groups & Events
Online Soul Enlightenment Circle &#8211; Religious Trauma Peer Support
October 1 @ 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm
Online Bisexual Peer Support Group
October 6 @ 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm
BIPOC Peer Support Group
October 13 @ 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm
Gender Affirming Care Letter Lab
October 14 @ 10:00 am - 5:00 pm
Soul Enlightenment Circle &#8211; Religious Trauma Peer Support
October 15 @ 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm
Bisexual Peer Support Group
October 27 @ 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm
More Upcoming Events
Vision Board Party - Visit the Flickr Album
Crisis Resources
If you are in need of immediate mental health assistance, please reference one of these LGBTQ+ affirming crisis resources.
Colorado Crisis Services
Call 1-844-493-8255 | Text TALK to 38255 | Learn more at coloradocrisisservices.org
Trans Lifeline
Call 877-565-8860 | Learn more at translifeline.org
The Trevor Project
Call 1-866-488-7386 | Text START to 678-678 | Learn more at thetrevorproject.org/get-help
988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline
Call or Text 988 | Chat at 988lifeline.org
More Crisis & Referral Resources
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I sign up for services?
You can sign up for services by completing the interest form on our website. Click here to access the interest form . Fill out the appropriate information and submit your form.
After we receive your submission, you will receive an email from our client portal, Simple Practice. The email will allow you to enter the portal and access and fill out the necessary documents. Once you have completed your documents and we have recorded your scores, our team will reach out to you with further information.
Do I need to reach out to Glass Lawler Mental Health after completing the interest form?
Glass Lawler Mental Health will send a client portal link to you once we have received your completed interest form.
Can I request and schedule an appointment once I have completed the interest form or accessed the client portal?
Glass Lawler Mental Health will send you a message regarding scheduling your first appointment once your intake paperwork has been reviewed.
Do I need to submit my insurance information in the Simple Practice portal?
Glass Lawler Mental Health DOES NOT require insurance or referral information. There is no need to submit any insurance or referral information.
Can I be seen through telehealth services?
Yes. Glass Lawler Mental Health has the appropriate equipment and capabilities to provide telehealth therapy services.
Can I do bi-weekly sessions if my schedule does not permit weekly sessions?
Yes. You are able to make scheduling accommodations that best fit your needs and align with your clinician's schedule.
Can I access my records if I need them for another medical procedure, psychiatry appointment, legal purposes, etc.?
If you ever need your documentation & records to be sent to or reviewed by another clinician or other medical care provider, you can request a Release of Information (ROI) and we can have the appropriate documentation sent to the requested provider.
Can I cycle back into services once my 12 sessions are completed?
You are allowed to receive services from Glass Lawler Mental Health one year (12 months) after the date of your final session in your first round of services.
Am I allowed to join the peer groups the program hosts if I am receiving services?
Yes. The peer groups and clinical services are all things Glass Lawler Mental Health provides for our community members to utilize. All of our peer groups are free of charge and open for drop-ins. You are welcome to attend these groups whether or not you are receiving clinical services via our program.
How do I get in contact with my clinician after hours during a crisis?
If there is a crisis, please refer to our crisis resource webpage and dial 911 in the case of an immediate emergency.
Sign up for our newsletter!
Not quite ready to sign up for services, but interested in keeping in touch with the program? Sign up for our newsletter! We send out monthly newsletters with updates about the program and upcoming events.
Holiday Haven Express - Visit the Flickr Album
Additional Resources
LGBTQ Resource Directory
Support Groups
Legal Help
Fingerprinting Services
Resources for Transgender College Students
Resource Directory
Page load link
Ready to Rebel? ❤️‍🔥
Join us at Afterglow, our rooftop fashion show fundraiser, on September 26 at 6:00 PM. It will be an unforgettable night of storytelling, community, and impact. Use code REBEL10 for 10% off your ticket today.
x
Go to Top