Skip to content Back to Top
Home / Self-Help / Filing Fees & Fee Waiver
Filing Fees & Fee Waiver
Filing Fees
Fee Waiver
&#9658; Filing Fees
Administrative Rule 9 sets the fee schedule for all court proceedings and services. Here are the fees for opening various cases. There is a $75 fee in divorce and custody cases to file a Motion to Modify Child Custody, Visitation or Support or Spousal Maintenance or Property Division. In other cases, there are no additional fees once you have opened a case unless you request copies, etc.
Type
Effective 5/1/2023
Adoption
$100
Change of Name (child or adult)
$200
Debt Collection up to $100,000
$150
Debt Collection over $100,000
$250
Depositing a Will
$50
Divorce, Dissolution, Custody or Paternity
$250
Motion to Modify a final Alaska order or decree awarding child custody, child support, or spousal support or allocating Property when parents do not agree
$75
Joint or Stipulated (parents agree) Motion to Modify a final Alaska order or decree awarding child custody, child support, or spousal support, or allocating property
FREE
Register a foreign child support order
FREE
Register a foreign child custody order
$150
Register a foreign domestic relations order that is not for child custody or support
$150
Register a foreign domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking protective order
FREE
Motion to Modify a registered foreign child custody order when parents do not agree
$75
Joint or Stipulated (parents agree) Motion to Modify a registered foreign child custody order
FREE
Motion to Modify a registered foreign child support order when parents do not agree or when parents agree (joint or stipulated)
FREE
Motion to Modify a registered foreign domestic relations order that is not for custody or child support when parents do not agree or when parents agree (joint or stipulated)
FREE
Petition for expedited enforcement of a non-registered child custody order
$100
Motion to enforce a final Alaska order or a registered foreign order
FREE
Register a foreign order
Register a foreign adoption order
$50
Register a foreign guardianship or conservatorship order
$50
File ancillary probate letters from a foreign court (authenticated copies of letters testamentary or letters of administration from a foreign court)
$50
Register a foreign money judgment
$150
Register a foreign non-money judgment, except those listed above
$150
Forcible Entry and Detainer (Eviction) with up to $100,000 in damages
$150
Forcible Entry and Detainer (Eviction) with over $100,000 in damages
$250
Other Civil Cases not listed
$250
Guardianship
$150
Probate of Estates
$250
Protective Orders - Domestic Violence, Stalking, Sexual Assault, or Financial Abuse
FREE
Small Claims
$50 if dispute is $2,500 or less; $100 if dispute is more than $2,500
Certification of documents
$10/first, $3 each additional
Copy fees per document (not page)
$5/first, $3 each additional
Records research
$30.00
Note: There are other fees associated with appealing a case.
&#9658; Fee Waiver
Filing fees are set forth in Administrative Rule 9 , Fee Schedule.
Instructions for requesting waiver of filing fee
For All Cases Except State Prisoner Litigation
To request waiver of the filing fee for your case, submit the following form when you file your case:
TF-920 - Request for Exemption from Payment of Fees
State Prisoner Litigation
If you are incarcerated and filing civil litigation* against the State of Alaska, you must file the following to request a waiver of the filing fee:
CIV-670 - Prisoner Request for Filing Fee Exemption
CR-206 - Financial Statement
A certified copy of your account statement for the past six months from the Department of Corrections.
* Civil litigation includes applications for post-conviction relief, civil lawsuits, appeals of civil judgments, and appeals from final decisions of administrative agency.
Fee Waiver when Filing the Complaint or Starting the Case
Usually, you file the TF-920 with your complaint and other papers when you go to open your case. The court will hold on to your complaint until after the judge rules on the waiver. If it is granted, the clerk will fill out the bottom half of your summons. You cannot serve the other party until after you get the completed summons, and you will not get a completed summons until after the TF-920 has been ruled on. At some courts, you must return to the court to get your completed summons, other courts will issue it automatically after the waiver is granted.
Check with your local court to make sure you understand the procedure in using this form and getting the completed summons.
Fee Waiver When Filing a Motion to Modify
If you are requesting a fee waiver for a motion to modify, you should wait to serve the other side until you receive the fee waiver or pay the filing fee. Once you serve the other side, you'll need to file a certificate of service showing when and how you gave him/her a copy. You may file:
Certificate of Service, SHC-1620 Word | PDF
If you have not heard from the court within a week of filing the TF-920, be sure to call them. These requests are usually ruled upon within a few days.
Calendars
Forms
Jury Service
Pay Online
Request Copies
Search Cases
Glossaries / Legal Terms
Language Assistance
Legal Notices
Locations & Hours
Represent Yourself
Restitution Collection
Accessibility
Careers
Contact Us
Court System Information
Site Index
Terms of Use