Skip to Main Content
Now Accepting THP Trooper Applications
Report a Threat or Suspicious Activity
Voter Photo ID
Under Tennessee Law, registered voters must show government-issued photo identification to cast a ballot during voting early or on Election Day.
Any driver's license or photo ID issued by the Tennessee Department of Safety and Homeland Security, by Tennessee state government or by the federal government are acceptable even if they are expired. College student IDs are not acceptable.
Acceptable Voter Photo ID Issued by the Tennessee Department of Safety and Homeland Security:
Regular Driver License with photo
REAL ID
Commercial Driver License
Motorcycle License
Identification (ID Only) License
Handgun Carry Permit with photo
For more information on voter ID requirements in Tennessee, visit the Tennessee Secretary of State's Office .
For Citizens Without Government-Issued Photo IDs
If you are a registered voter and do not have a government-issued photo ID, the Department of Safety and Homeland Security will provide you with a photo ID at no charge. Citizens may obtain these IDs at 48 of the Driver Service Centers across the state. Photo IDs are not available at the West Knoxville Reinstatement Center in Knox County.
To get a valid photo ID for voting purposes, voters must show the following documentation to a Driver Service Center examiner:
Proof of Citizenship - An original or certified birth certificate issued by Tennessee or another state, possession, territory, or commonwealth of the USA is preferred. If you do not have a certified birth certificate, a Driver Service Center manager can help you to identify other documentation to prove citizenship.
Two (2) Proofs of Tennessee Residency – acceptable documents include a copy of a utility bill, vehicle registration/title, or bank statement.
Under the law, the Department of Safety and Homeland Security cannot issue a photo ID without these required documents.
Applicants must sign an affidavit under penalty of perjury stating that they do not have a valid government-issued photo ID for voting purposes. Voters may download the affidavit and sign it before visiting the Driver Service Center. Affidavits are also available at your county election commission .
For Citizens with Non-Photo Driver Licenses
Any citizen who currently holds a non-photo Tennessee driver license may elect to simply get a photo driver license rather than a separate photo ID.
Registered voters may convert their non-photo driver license to a photo driver license at Driver Service Centers.
Citizens with a non-photo driver license must sign an affidavit under penalty of perjury stating that they do not have a valid government-issued photo ID for voting purposes. Voters may download the affidavit and sign it before visiting the Driver Service Center. Affidavits are also available at your county election commission .
There is no fee for this service.
Voters who need government-issued photo IDs, are eligible for "express service" at Driver Services Centers. Please tell the employee greeting customers that you are at the center for a government-issued photo ID for voting purposes to help reduce your wait time.
Close