Go to Content
Planned Parenthood of Western Pennsylvania
Providing Essential Care for 100+ Years
Get Care
Our Johnstown & Greensburg Health Centers, and Telehealth are Fully Available!
Schedule a Visit
Join the All-new Pledge A Picketer Program
They Shout Lies; You Fund Facts!
Join Here
As of September 1, 2026 , our Johnstown, Pittsburgh Family Planning, and Greensburg health centers are all available for in-person appointment scheduling. Our Bridgeville health center is temporarily unavailable for in-person appointments as we continue to address staffing needs. Please check clinic pages for more detailed availability information.
Many of our services continue to be available via telehealth. If you need an appointment, our team is here to help you find the right location or telehealth choice for you! Abortion Services are not impacted by schedule adjustments.
Your care matters deeply to us. We are committed to providing the high-quality, judgement-free care you expect from Planned Parenthood.
Abortion is legal in Pennsylvania. Both procedural and medication abortion are available options for patients seeking abortion care. If you need assistance finding abortion services or think you might be pregnant do not hesitate to call 412-562-1900 , we can provide you with options to make the choice that is right for you.
If you already have an appointment booked, you can still receive your abortion care.
For any press or media inquiries, we respectfully ask you to avoid calling the clinic lines so that we may leave them open to patients. Please contact our Communications team email at [email&#160;protected] .
Click Here
Schedule Your Appointment Online
We now offer online appointment scheduling for all health center locations!
BOOK ONLINE
Family Planning Services Program
Uninsured? Enroll in Pennsylvania's Family Planning Services Program.
LEARN MORE
Get Your Personal Health Record
You can access your personal health record through the Patient Portal.
READ MORE
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
Stay informed about the latest PPWP news and resources.
Sign Up
Find Upcoming Ways to Engage
See what's happening soon and sign up for an event near you.
Sign-up Here
PAY YOUR BILL
Facebook
Like us!
Instagram
Follow us!
Threads
ADD US!
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all