Guidance about Gender Designations
on Maine Driver’s Licenses
Guidance as of March 3, 2025
Changes at the federal level regarding United States passport issuance have led to questions about
whether any changes to the laws or rules around driver license and identity card issuance are
forthcoming at the state level. The short answer is no. We welcome every Mainer, and we will
continue to provide excellent customer service to every Mainer. The Secretary of State remains
respectful of everyone, including those who are transgender, non-binary, and gender expansive.
1. Will my driver’s license or state ID need to be updated to reflect my sex assigned at birth?
● No. Maine-issued driver’s licenses and state IDs are governed by state laws, not the federal
executive order. That means that individuals may receive or update a credential to reflect
their gender identity. The executive order does not override Maine human rights law.
2. Can I change the gender marker on my state ID to match my gender identity?
● Yes, under current Maine BMV policies, individuals can request a gender marker change to
align with their gender identity. Contact the Maine BMV for specific procedures and
requirements.
3. Does this executive order affect Real ID compliance?
● Real ID compliance remains unchanged for state-issued IDs at this time.
4. Will the BMV deny me a license if my gender identity doesn’t match my sex assigned at
birth?
● No, the Maine BMV does not require gender identity to match sex assigned at birth for
issuing licenses. Under Maine’s civil rights law, current policies allow gender marker
changes for Maine licenses and ID cards.
5. Does the executive order require the BMV to change how it collects or displays gender
information?
● No, the executive order applies to federal agencies and does not mandate changes to
Maine BMV policies regarding the collection or display of gender information.
Shenna Bellows
Secretary of State
Department of the Secretary of State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles
Catherine Curtis
Deputy Secretary of
6. If my state-issued ID lists a gender marker that doesn’t align with the executive order, will it
still be valid?
● Yes, your state-issued ID remains valid for use in Maine. The executive order does not
invalidate existing state documents.
7. Will TSA and federal buildings honor my Real ID if it has an "X" gender marker?
● The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has not announced changes regarding Real
IDs with an "X" gender marker. However, passport applications and renewals and other
federal documents must reflect sex assigned at birth. Customers should check DHS
policies for updates.
8. Does the executive order apply retroactively to existing passports or IDs?
● The White House Press Secretary told reporters in January 2025 that this new rule will
not be applied retroactively. Passports issued before the executive order, including those
with updated gender markers or an "X," should remain valid until their expiration date.
9. When I need to renew my passport will it need to match my sex assigned at birth?
● Yes, under the executive order, moving forward, only passports with an M or F sex marker
that match the customer's biological sex at birth will be issued, regardless of previous
gender markers.