Skip to main content
Gender Care Clinic
Request an Appointment
402.559.4343
Request an Appointment
402.559.4343
Providing care and support for people of all genders in their transition.
GENDER CARE CLINIC RESOURCES
Doctors
Locations
Gender affirming care is a combination of social, legal and medical measures that help people feel happy, healthy and safe in their gender. It is a comprehensive approach to ensuring a person’s mental and physical needs surrounding their gender identity and expressions are met.
Recent changes to the laws in the state of Nebraska have changed the way Nebraska Medicine can provide ongoing gender care for individuals who are exploring their gender identity:
Any minors will be treated for behavioral health issues.
Everyone age 19 and older can be seen for any of the gender care services we offer.
Under the existing laws, we can help you with:
Behavioral health care
Facial gender affirmation surgery for people aged 19 or older
Other types of gender affirmation surgery for people aged 19 or older
Sensitive exams
Gynecology and birth control
Documents required for legal gender marker changes
Referrals for Legal services
Fertility services
Financial counseling
Primary care services
Other health care providers, including urologists for transwomen who want to pursue orchiectomy (removal of testes), hysterectomy (removal of the uterus) and plastic surgeons for top and bottom surgery Surgical services are only available for people aged 19 or older in Nebraska
Patient forms and helpful links:
Telehealth visit preparation
Common billing and insurance questions
One Chart | Patient
Treatments
Behavioral Health
Facial Gender Affirmation Surgery
Voice Care
Our Locations
Diabetes and Endocrinology Center at Specialty Services Pavilion Image
Diabetes and Endocrinology Center at Specialty Services Pavilion
4350 Emile St.
Omaha, NE 68105
Get Directions
Internal Medicine Clinic at Village Pointe Health Center Image
Internal Medicine Clinic at Village Pointe Health Center
110 N 175th St. Omaha, NE 68118
Get Directions
Plastic Surgery Clinic at Great Plains Health Image
Plastic Surgery Clinic at Great Plains Health
601 W Leota
North Platte, NE 69101
Get Directions
Specialty Care Center Image
Specialty Care Center
804 S 52nd St.
Omaha, NE 68106
Get Directions
Find a Gender Care Clinic Specialist
Search
Transgender resources
Here are some external resources our team recommends.
View More
Common Transgender Care questions
We receive common questions about sex and gender, gender identity and more. View our FAQs.
View More
For referring providers
Thank you for referring your patient to the Transgender Care Clinic. We proudly follow the current WPATH guidelines for caring for our patients.
View More
The Human Rights Campaign , America’s largest civil rights organization working to achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans* (LGBT) folks, designated Nebraska Medicine as a Top Performer .
Open modal window
Open directions modal
Modal window
You're leaving our website
You’re about to leave the Nebraska Medicine website. The other site may collect information about your visit, including your IP address. Do you want to continue?
Open in Google Maps
Close modal window
close modal window
Have questions? We're here to help.
Contact us to make an appointment
402.559.4343