Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Rhode Island Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes . A background check and a hearing are typically required.
Name Change (Minor): Yes . A background check and a hearing are typically required. All known legal parents must be notified.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes . Requires a certified copy of a court order for change of name.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes. Requires you to sign an affidavit at an in-person appointment at the Vital Records Office. No medical documentation is required.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes . Requires a certified copy of a court order for change of name.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes . Rhode Island will update the gender marker on a DL/ID to M, F, or X upon self-attestation by the applicant of their gender. No medical documentation is required.
Restrictions Based on Prior Criminal Convictions : No. There are no restrictions, but a background check is required for a name change.
Rhode Island Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Rhode Island, you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the probate court . You can find the probate court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
Step 2: Background Check (if applicable)
Depending on your probate court, you may be asked to complete a criminal history records check and fingerprinting. Some courts complete the background check for you. Check with your local court about their process.
If you are required to complete the background check, this may be requested through the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation . You can complete the check in-person or by mail. There will be a fee.
Step 3: Gather Documents & File at the Probate Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the probate court of your county of residence. You can find your probate court here .
You will need to contact your court clerk for the required local forms. You will need:
Petition for Change of Name
A certified copy of your original birth certificate
Decree of Change of Name
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver to reduce or eliminate the fee. Talk to your court clerk for more information about applying for a fee waiver.
Name change cases are public, however, there is no publication requirement or public notice requirement. If you feel that an open record poses a personal safety concern, you may request that the case be sealed. Transgender status makes you eligible to ask that the court proceedings be confidential. Talk to your court clerk for more information about sealing your case.
Step 4: Attend Hearing & Issuance of Final Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court may schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
If the judge approves the request, they will sign the Decree for Change of Name, and you can request a certified copy of the order from your probate court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Rhode Island Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the probate court. You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, your petitioning guardian must complete the Petition for Change of Name .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
Step 2: Background Check (if applicable)
Depending on your court, you may be asked to complete a criminal history records check and fingerprinting. Check with your court if a background check is required for minors.
This may be requested through the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation . This can be completed in-person or by mail and will have associated fees.
If you have additional questions about the requirements or procedures for a background check for your county, you may wish to contact your court clerk.
Step 3: Gather Documents & File at the Probate Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the probate court of your county of residence. You can find your probate court here .
You will need to contact your court clerk for the required local forms. You will need:
Petition for Change of Name
A certified copy of your original birth certificate
Decree for Change of Name
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver to reduce or eliminate the fee. Talk to your court clerk for more information about applying for a fee waiver.
Name change cases are public, however, there is no publication requirement or public notice requirement. If you feel that an open record poses a personal safety concern, you may request that the case be sealed. Transgender status makes you eligible to ask that the court proceedings be confidential. Talk to your court clerk for more information about sealing your case.
Step 4: Parental Notification
Notification of all known and legal parents is required to grant a minor name change.
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are typically able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition or the non-petitioning parent will need to file a consent form. Some counties may also require you, the minor, to consent to your own name change if you are above a certain age.
If a known legal parent does not consent to the requested name change, they will still need to be notified through the service process. Please contact your local court for more information on the service process and the proper documentation for your county.
Step 5: Attend Hearing & Issuance of Final Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court may schedule a hearing, which you and your petitioning guardian will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the judge approves the request, they will sign the Decree for Change of Name, and you will request a certified copy of the order from your probate court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Rhode Island Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Rhode Island Department of Health will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments. For gender marker amendments, you will need to complete a self-attestation affidavit at an in-person appointment. It will take 3-4 weeks to process your amendment request.
When Amending the Name Only
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
A certified copy of a court order for change of name
A valid form of photo ID
The $10.00 amendment fee
The $22.00-$25.00 certificate fee. There is an additional fee for multiple copies.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the Vital Records Office.
During your appointment, you will sign an affidavit self-attesting to the gender marker (F, M, or X) that you wish to be displayed on your amended certificate. If you are a minor, a parent or legal guardian will need to sign the affidavit. No medical documentation is required.
You will also need to bring a valid form of photo ID, the $10.00 amendment fee, and the $22.00 in-person certificate fee to your appointment.
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Rhode Island, you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Rhode Island Vital Records Office or bring the proper documentation and photo identification to the office in person. Make an appointment here . The office is open weekdays from 7:30 AM - 3:30 PM.
Mailing address / Physical Address:
Rhode Island Department of Health's (RIDOH) Center for Vital Records
Simpson Hall, 6 Harrington Rd.
Cranston, RI 02920
If you are no longer a Rhode Island resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Rhode Island, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Rhode Island Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Rhode Island, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records Office.
Phone: (401) 222-2811
Email: doh.website@health.ri.gov
Rhode Island Driver’s License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on a Rhode Island driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
License/ID/Permit Application
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Rhode Island residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A list of acceptable identification and residency documentation is available on the last page of the application.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Rhode Island will update the gender marker on a DL/ID to male, female, or X upon self-attestation by the applicant of their gender. No medical documentation is required.
To change your gender marker on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Gender Designation for License / Identification Card
License/ID/Permit Application
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Rhode Island residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A certified copy of your order of name change (if you wish to update your name at the same time)
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your DMV at (401) 462-4368.
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
GLAD Law: Transgender ID Project —offers free legal assistance with name changes and gender marker corrections to individuals living in New England. Fill out their intake form here .
Email: gladlaw@glad.org
Phone: 617-426-1350
TGI Network of Rhode Island —provides detailed self-help resources for those navigating the name change process and are updating their identity documents.
Email: info@tginetwork.org
Trans Vote RI —has compiled an accessible road map for trans and gender diverse folks updating their name and gender marker on their identity documents.
Email: transhealth@thundermisthealth.org
Rhode Island Citations:
Name Change— RI Gen L § 33-22-28
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe