Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Apply for Legal Aid Services
Apply for legal aid services online or by calling our toll-free statewide intake number.
Apply Online → Start your online application.
Call Toll-Free → 1-888-478-2572 to apply by phone.
Legal Issues ALSC Cannot Help With
There are some types of legal issues that we are unable to help with because we are prohibited from taking them or because they fall outside our priorities. These include:
Tickets and citations: Legal issues related to a ticket or citation issued by a police officer.
Criminal matters: Where someone has been charged with a crime.
Personal injury matters: When someone wants to sue another person for causing an injury or damaging their property, such as after a car accident.
Workers compensation claims: When an employee was injured at work and is seeking medical benefits or lost wages.
Before You Apply
We encourage applicants to review our Client Services , Eligibility Requirements , FAQs , and Additional Resources before applying. If you cannot apply online or by phone, you may complete a paper application .
Important Information
ALSC does not have the resources to accept every application. Case acceptance decisions are based on priorities established by our Board of Directors.
ALSC attorneys generally do not handle cases involving personal injury, accidents, or wrongful death. For assistance with these cases, contact the Alaska Bar Association Lawyer Referral Service at 1-800-770-9999 or 907-272-0352.
If you need an interpreter, let us know and one will be provided at no cost.
ABOUT US
Alaska Legal Services Corporation is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that provides high quality free civil legal services to low-income Alaskans in need. Since 1967, ALSC&#8217;s services have reached thousands of Alaskans and their communities to protect their safety, their health and promote family stability.
QUICK LINKS
Client Services
Eligibilty Guidelines
Apply for Help
Upcoming Legal Clinics
Additional Resources
Volunteer with ALSC
Careers
Support ALSC
Community Justice Worker Program
Contact Us
CONNECT
Join ALSC's Email List
Close Search for...