Home / Health Services / LGBTQ+ Health
LGBTQ+ Health
Northern Nevada HOPES (HOPES) welcomes all members of the community and provides culturally competent, judgment-free health care to lesbian, gay, and bisexual individuals, as well as community outreach and education. We are a proud ally of the LGBTQ+ community, and members of the LGBTQ+ community can expect high quality, compassionate care, including:
Primary care
Sexual health care
Walk-in STI testing
HIV prevention services
Behavioral health counseling
Substance use counseling
Support groups
Gender affirming care
The Barry Frank Family Gender and Sexual Healthcare Clinic at HOPES provides gender affirming resources, case management, and financial support for individuals who are transitioning.
Learn more
give out day
HOPES proudly participates in the national day of giving for the LGBTQ+ Community each year. HOPES is a proud ally of the LGBTQ+ community and many staff and supporters identify as LGBTQ+. We connect our patients to the services and support they need, including onsite support groups, resources, medical care, and of course, connection to community. We live by our values which include kindness, dignity, inclusion, creativity, and adaptability.
Find Services
Primary Care
Pediatrics
Behavioral Health
Sexual Health
LGBTQIA+ Health
HIV Care
Northern Nevada LGBTQ+ Resources
Access a variety of LGBTQ+ resources, including educational guides, advocacy and allies, transition services and products, medical and mental health, and spiritual support.
Our Center LGBTQ+ Resource Guide
Guide to Healthy Binding
Contribute to HOPES Transgender and Gender Diverse Resource Guide
Do you have a business that provides a valuable service to members of the transgender and gender diverse communities? Please email us to be added to the HOPES guide.
Email us
LGBTQ+ Resources
Northern Nevada’s LGBTQ+ community center.
The Silver Dollar Court (SDC) is a non-political social organization promoting the positive image of the LGBTQ+ community through charitable fundraising to meet the needs of all. SDC is part of the International Court System.
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) promotes support, education, and advocacy for members of the LGBTQ+ community and their allies.
The Northern Nevada LGBTQ Leadership Alliance (NALA) aims to unite the LGBTQ+ leadership of northern Nevada in greater solidarity.
The Transgender Allies Group offers m eetings, information, transition forms, and other resources.
We are a proud member of the Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce of Nevada.
Northern Nevada Pride and CommUNITY Parade, 4th Weekend in July.
Connecting LGBTQ+ people and allies to the community.
Other HOPES Programs
HOPES has many programs designed to build overall health and well being by connecting patients with medical and mental health care, as well as other necessities of living.
Programs
HOPES Gender-Affirming Resource Guide
Guide to Healthy Binding
HOPES Gender Affirming Care Resource Guide
This guide made possible by the Barry Frank Family Gender and Sexual Healthcare Clinic.
Do you have a business that provides a valuable service to members of the gender diverse communities? Please click the Submit Resource button below.
Submit Resource
Filter:
Categories
Categories
Medical Care
Behavioral Health
Basic Needs
Legal Resources
Spiritual Resources
Community-Based Resources
Social Spaces
Beauty
Queer Owned &/or Operated
Other
Laura Romano, LCSW
Behavioral Health
775-377-6028 Website
More Information
Services:
Laura Romano has a trans-affirming therapy practice in Reno. She has worked with trans folks for several years, and she has expertise in trauma and PTSD, adoption, gender identity and transition, grief, and more. She writes mental health evaluation letters for those seeking gender affirming surgery. Laura is bilingual in English and Spanish, and practices via telehealth only.
UNTAG
Beauty
Website
More Information
Social Media:
@we.are.untag on Instagram
Services:
UNTAG is a quality clothing brand for trans folks. They sell binders, bras, tucking underwear, packing underwear, swimsuits, breast prosthetics, and packers. They aim to make products for every body, disability and size inclusive. Their website also has helpful educational guides about binding, tucking, and packing.
Genderbands
Beauty, Medical Care, Queer Owned &/or Operated
Website
More Information
Social Media:
@genderbands on Instagram
Services:
Genderbands is a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping trans and nonbinary people access gender affirming care. They have transition grants for surgical and medical care, travel, social transition costs, and youth. The grant application is open annually from October 1st through November 30th. They also sell gender affirming clothing, accessories, and items such as packers and gaffs (20% of the proceeds helps fund thier grants!).
Human Rights Campaign
Legal Resources, Other
Website
More Information
Social Media:
@humanrightscampaign on Instagram
Services:
The Human Rights Campaign is the United States' largest LGBTQ+ civil rights organization. They seek to make equality, equity, and liberation a reality for all LGBTQ people. They advocate for LGBTQ rights in politics, and they have information on LGBTQ law and policy broken down by state. They also have many resources on their website, such as for elections, health and aging, youth, laws and legislation, communities of color, sexual health, HIV and health equity, religion and faith, coming out, workplace and employment, global issues, and more.
Load more
Due to the weather, the clinic and pharmacy will be closed today, February 17, 2026. All appointments at the clinic will be canceled. The cancellations include all groups and IOP. Telehealth appointments that were already scheduled will continue as planned. We plan to reopen tomorrow, February 18, 2026.
Debido al clima, la clínica y la farmacia estarán cerradas hoy, 17 de febrero de 2026. Todas las citas en la clínica serán canceladas. Las cancelaciones incluyen todos los grupos de IOP. Las citas de telesalud que ya estaban programadas continuarán según lo planeado. Planeamos reabrir mañana, 18 de febrero de 2026.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Monday, January 19 for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Tuesday, 01/20.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Lunes 1 de enero por el Día de Martin Luther King, Jr. El horario regular se reanudará el Martes, 01/20.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Monday, February 16 for Presidents’ Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Tuesday, 02/17.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Lunes 16 de Febrero por el Día de los Presidentes. El horario regular se reanudará el Martes, 02/17.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Monday, May 25 for Memorial Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Tuesday, 05/26.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Lunes 25 de Mayo por el Día de la Conmemoración de los caídos. El horario regular se reanudará el Martes, 05/26.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Friday, June 19 for Juneteenth National Independence Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Monday, 06/22.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Viernes 19 de Junio por el Día de la Independencia Nacional Juneteenth. El horario regular se reanudará el Lunes, 06/22.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Friday, July 3 for Independence Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Monday, 07/06.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Viernes 3 de Julio por el Día de la Independencia. El horario regular se reanudará el Lunes, 07/06.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Monday, September 7 for Labor Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Tuesday, 09/08.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Lunes 7 de Septiembre por el Día del Trabajo. El horario regular se reanudará el Martes, 09/08.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Friday, October 30 for Nevada Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Monday, 11/02.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Viernes 30 de Octubre por el Día de Nevada. El horario regular se reanudará el Lunes, 11/02.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Wednesday, November 11 for Veterans Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Thursday, 11/12.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Miércoles 11 de noviembre por el Día de los Veteranos. El horario regular se reanudará el Jueves, 11/12.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Thursday, November 26 for Thanksgiving and Friday, November 27 for Family Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Monday, 11/30.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el 12/25 y 12/26cerradas el Jueves 26 de noviembre por el Día de Acción de Gracias y el viernes 27 de noviembre por el Día de la Familia. El horario regular se reanudará el Lunes, 11/30.
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on Friday, December 25 for Christmas Day. Regular operational hours will resume on Monday, 12/28.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el Viernes 25 de Diciembre por Navidad. El horario regular se reanudará el Lunes, 12/28.
Home Starts in the Kitchen
Powered by Hands of Hope
Double your impact this Giving Tuesday!
Hope Springs’ kitchen is more than a place to cook &#8211; it’s where lives are rebuilt. We’re raising $20,000 to renovate this space and provide residents with essential kitchen basics they’ll keep as they transition into their own homes. Your donation today says, “You belong here. You are home.”
Every gift is matched up to $20,000.
Make your gift before midnight, December 2.
Double My Gift
Northern Nevada HOPES&#8217; Clinics and Pharmacies will be closed on 12/25 and 12/26 for the holidays. Regular operational hours will resume on Monday, 12/29.
Las clínicas y farmacias de Northern Nevada HOPES estarán cerradas el 12/25 y 12/26 por vacaciones. El horario regular se reanudará el Lunes, 12/29.