Skip to main content
Unsupported Browser Detected
The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer.
Supported Browsers
Google Chrome
Safari
Microsoft Edge
Firefox
License or ID sex designation correction
License or ID sex designation correction
How can I correct my sex designation on my driver's license or ID?
Online
Unavailable for this transaction
Unavailable
By mail
Unavailable for this transaction
Unavailable
Self-service station
Unavailable for this transaction
Unavailable
Office visit
Complete your business
in an average of 20 minutes
Schedule an office visit
What do I need to correct my sex designation on my license or ID? (Choose tab)
Current license or ID
Sex Designation Form
Payment
To correct the sex designation on your license or ID at a Secretary of State office, you will need to provide your current Michigan license or ID. During your office visit, you will take a new photo for your license or ID.
To correct the sex designation on your license or ID, you will need to complete a Sex Designation Form. You may complete the form before visiting an office and bring it with you or request a form to complete during your office visit.
Sex Designation Form
Provide payment using a credit or debit card (additional fees apply), cash, or check or money order made payable to the State of Michigan for the license or ID correction fee.
Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
What types of gender markers are used on licenses and IDs?
You can denote your sex on your license or ID as nonbinary (X), female (F), or male (M).
What is the cost to change my sex designation on my license or ID?
Driver's license &ndash; $9
ID &ndash; $10
Will my license or ID card be issued at my office visit?
Our staff will take a photo and you will be issued a temporary paper credential while at the office to use until your permanent document arrives. Licenses and IDs are printed at a secure off-site facility and will be mailed to you.
Can I also use the Sex Designation Form to change my name on my license or ID?
No, submitting a Sex Designation Form will only correct the sex designation on your license or ID and cannot be used to apply to change your name on your credential or any other municipal, state or federal identification records.
License or ID name correction
Can I convert my license or ID to REAL ID and change my sex designation at the same time?
Yes, you can update your standard license or ID to a REAL ID-compliant version at the time of changing your sex designation. To do so, you must also provide documentation proving your legal presence in the United States.
REAL ID information
Will I be automatically registered to vote if I change my sex designation on my license or ID?
Unless you opt out or are already registered to vote in Michigan, you will be automatically registered to vote at the time of updating your license or ID. If you are already registered to vote, your voter registration status won't change after updating your license or ID.
Check your voter registration status
Will the appearance of my voter info change on my record when I change sex designation on my license?
No. Because sex designation isn't recorded on voter registration, your voter registration information won't change after changing your sex designation on your license or ID, provided that no other aspects of your registration have changed (i.e. your name, address, etc.). If you have changed your address, you will need to update your voter registration information. You may update your voter registration online or at your local clerk's office.
Update your voter registration
Will election supervisors/inspectors be able to turn me away if I haven't changed my name, but have changed my sex designation on my license or ID?
No. When you arrive to vote, state law requires that you provide photo ID. However, poll workers aren't instructed to verify sex designation before issuing a ballot and you aren't required to provide verification.
If you don't have your ID or if there is a question about your identity, you are permitted to sign an affidavit, under the penalty of perjury, that you are who you claim to be, and you will be issued a special ballot to be counted on Election Day. For more information, contact your local clerk's office or the Michigan Bureau of Elections.
Contact your local clerk
If I have a question or concern about how my request to change my sex designation was handled at a Secretary of State office, who should I contact?
We are committed to providing excellent customer service. As part of this commitment, we are working with community groups to develop training for our staff on implicit bias and working with various marginalized groups. If you have any questions or concerns about how your request was handled, please choose the contact us button or email our office at Secretary@Michigan.gov .
Contact us
How will my name appear on my Michigan driver’s license or state ID?
Your name will appear on two separate lines. Your first and middle name will appear on the first line, and your last name will appear on the line directly below.
Michigan's system allows up to 36 characters in the full name fields. If your name exceeds this limit, it will be automatically shortened.
Apostrophes cannot be included on a Michigan driver's license or state ID. Hyphens can be used for multiple names and will appear on the card.
Suffixes such as JR, SR, and Roman numerals up to X may be included. These suffixes will appear at the end of the first line after your first and middle name.
Still have questions?
More FAQs
Follow us