Skip to main content
Temporary unavailability of Enterprise Justice and limited capabilities of eFile & Serve, Public Portal, Vermont Digital Evidence Portal and Attorney Licensing Portal on Thursday, September 24. Read more>>
Vermont Judiciary to Launch New Online Payment System for Judicial Bureau Fines. Read more>>
Beware of Scams: Fraudulent Messages Targeting Vermont Drivers. Read more>>
The Orleans County Courthouse at 247 Main Street in Newport is temporarily closed to the public. Court assistance and forms are available at the Orleans Criminal Courthouse located next door at 217 Main Street. All hearings will be held in person at 217 Main Street unless you are notified otherwise.
You can legally change your name by filing papers in court. If granted, you will get a court order with your new legal name. You can use the court order to change your name on identity documents like your driver’s license, social security card, and passport.
A petition for name change is filed in the probate division of the Superior Court in the county of your legal physical residence.
Other ways to change your name:
To change your name as part of a marriage , present your marriage certificate to the agencies and other places you want to change your name with, such as the Social Security Administration, and comply with their requirements.
To change your name because of a divorce , you can ask the court to restore you to a former name in the papers asking for the divorce. If granted, your new name will be included in the divorce decree.
An adoption decree may include a provision about a new name.
Forms
Find name change forms at the bottom of this web page. Read about forms generally on the About Court Forms web page .
Not finding what you're looking for?
Call or email the Access and Resource Center at 802-879-1185 or selfhelp@vtcourts.gov .
Adult Name Change
Steps for an adult to ask to change their name:
Fill out the Petition of Adult to Change Name (form 700-00122). You can find the form at the bottom of this web page.
File the completed form with the probate division of the Superior Court in the county in which you live. You can file in person, by mail, or by email. See the Filing Procedures web page for information about filing options.
There is a $150 fee to file a name change petition. If you can't afford the fee, you can ask the court to consider waiving it. See the Application to Waive Filing Fees and Service Costs web page for information and forms.
You may be required to also file a certified copy of your birth certificate and a copy of a photo ID, such as a driver's license or passport. Check with the court where you are filing for their requirements.
The court will schedule a hearing with the judge, and will notify you of the hearing date by mail.
If the court grants the name change request, you are responsible for telling others about your new name. See the Next Steps section below for more information.
For information about changing your gender marker, see the Name and Gender Marker Changes in Vermont web page on the VTLawHelp.org website.
Minor Name Change
A parent or guardian may ask the court to change a minor’s name. A minor is a child under 18. The process differs depending on whether both parents consent to the name change.
If both parents consent to the name change
Fill out the Petition to Change Name of Minor (form 700-00123). You can find the form at the bottom of this web page.
The consenting parent signs in the Non-Petitioning Parent section of the Petition .
If the minor is 14 or older, they must consent to the name change. The minor signs in the Minor’s Consent if over 14 section of the Petition .
File the completed form with the probate division of the Superior Court in the county in which the minor lives. You can file in person, by mail, or by email. See the Filing Procedures web page for information about filing options.
There is a $150 fee to file a name change petition. If you can't afford the fee, you can ask the court to consider waiving it. See the Application to Waive Filing Fees and Service Costs web page for information and forms.
You may be required to also file a certified copy of the birth certificate and a copy of a photo ID for both parents, such as a driver's license or passport . Check with the court where you are filing for their requirements.
The court will schedule a hearing with the judge, and will notify the parties of the hearing date by mail.
If one or both parents don’t consent to the name change
Fill out the Petition to Change Name of Minor (form 700-00123). You can find the form at the bottom of this web page.
You must provide the name and address of both of the minor’s parents.
If you don’t know the address of one or both of the parents, you must describe the efforts you made to find an address. You may use the General Affidavit – Probate Division (form 700-0305) to describe your efforts. You can find the form at the bottom of this web page.
If the minor is 14 or older, they must consent to the name change. The minor signs in the Minor’s Consent if over 14 section of the Petition .
File the completed form with the probate division of the Superior Court in the county in which the minor lives. You can file in person, by mail, or by email. See the Filing Procedures web page for information about filing options.
There is a $150 fee to file a name change petition. If you can't afford the fee, you can ask the court to consider waiving it. See the Application to Waive Filing Fees and Service Costs web page for information and forms.
You may be required to also file a certified copy of the minor’s birth certificate. Check with the court where you are filing for their requirements.
You must have a copy of the Petition to Change Name of Minor (form 700-00123) served on the non-consenting parent. One common method is by certified mail with return receipt requested. Another option is to pay a sheriff or constable to serve the non-consenting parent. See Vermont Rule of Probate Procedure 4(d) for other service options.
Fill out the Certificate of Service (form 600-00228) explaining how you served the non-consenting parent, and file it with the court. You can find the form at the bottom of this web page. You will also be required to provide proof of service.
If you aren’t able to serve a non-consenting parent, you may ask to serve them by an alternative method, such as publication in a newspaper. You may use the General Motion – Probate (form 700-00300) to make the request. You must describe the efforts you made to have them served. You may use the General Affidavit – Probate (form 700-0305) to describe your efforts. You can find the forms at the bottom of this web page.
The court will schedule a hearing with the judge, and will notify the parties of the hearing date by mail.
Next Steps
If the court grants the name change request, you are responsible for telling others about the new name. Here is a list of some of the institutions you might want to notify and documents you might want to change:
Bank
Birth certificate ( Vermont | Other states )
Employer
Health care providers
Insurance company
Landlord or tenants
Library
Mortgage company
Post office
Public benefits agencies
School
Social Security Administration to change a social security card
State and local taxes
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
U.S. Department of State to change a passport
Utilities, including power, internet, and phone
Vermont Department of Motor Vehicles to get a new driver license or state ID, and vehicle registration
Veterans Administration
Voter registration
Requesting a Copy of Your Name Change Order
To request a copy of your name change order, fill out the Request for Access to Court Record form and send it to the court where the case was filed .
After Case Name write:
In re First Name Last Name (formerly Old Name).
For example:
In re Riley Doe (formerly Taylor Smith).
After Case Type write Name Change.
You will find information about the process and the request form on the Request for Access to Court Records web page .
Requests for Access to Court Records
Forms
Asking to Waive Fees
See the Application to Waive Filing Fees and Service Costs web page for information and forms.
Adult Name Change
Petition of Adult to Change Name
(700-00122)
Minor Name Change
Name Change of Minor Child Information
(700-00123A)
Petition to Change Name of Minor
(700-00123)
Consent
(700-00155)
Probate Division - General Motion
General Motion - Probate
(700-00300)
General Affidavit - Probate
(700-00305)
Response to Motion - Probate
(700-00210)
Certificate of Service
(600-00264)
Updating Contact Information
Notice of Name Change or Change of Address
(600-00846)
Certificate of Service
(600-00264)
Related Content
Rule of Probate Procedure 80.6, Change of Name
15 V.S.A. § 811-817, Change of Name