Back
For Volunteers
Become a Volunteer
Report Your Case Status
Back
The Low-Income Taxpayer Project
LITP - Volunteers
Back
Join our team
Request for Proposals
Staff Attorney - Hope for Heroes
Director of Finance and Accounting
CJW Pilot Coordinator
CJW Staff Attorney
Scroll
Click here for our Written Notice of Beneficiary Protections.
Striving for a New Hampshire where justice is accessible to all.
OUR MISSION: To provide free quality civil legal services to people facing New Hampshire legal issues through compassionate advocacy, education, and pro bono representation.
603 Legal Aid is a civil legal aid provider offering legal representation, advocacy, and education. In partnership with volunteer attorneys and community organizations, 603 Legal Aid works to make justice a reality for and with people who experience economic hardship that threatens their basic human needs. 603 Legal Aid helps low-income people by providing free civil legal advice and information by telephone, by representing someone in court, or through a referral to a volunteer attorney or another program for legal help.
If you know someone who needs help with a non-criminal legal problem, contact 603 Legal Aid. You or your client can apply for legal help from this website at any time. Call 1 (800) 639-5290 or (603) 224-3333 from 9:00 AM – 12:30 PM on Monday through Wednesday.
APPLY NOW
Choose An Alternative Language
Français Español Português دری Kiswahili عربى Kinyarwanda پښتو
603 Legal Aid Can Give Legal Advice or Referrals About the Following:
Housing
Housing problems such as eviction and foreclosure.
Family Law and Domestic Violence
Family problems such as custody of a child, protective orders, or divorce.
Civil Rights
Discrimination, civil rights, and the rights of individuals with disabilities.
Benefits
Social security, unemployment, disability, and food stamps.
Criminal Record Annulments
Removing non-violent crimes from a criminal record
Tax Issues
Federal income tax problems
Click here for the complete list of Self-help Guides
Get Help Filling Out Certain Forms and Letters
Answer a set of questions, and get the form or letter you need with instructions that tell you what to do next and a link to more information about your legal issue. Download, email, or do both to get your final document.
The documents you can create are:
Letter to a debt collector asking them to stop contacting you,
Letter to a debt collector or creditor telling them you are judgment proof,
Letter to a prior landlord asking them to return your security deposit,
Appearance form for a tenant who is being evicted,
Answer and Request for Continuance for a tenant who is being evicted because they withheld rent,
Letter to your landlord asking them to make repairs or fix conditions in your home.
Our friends at Illinois Legal Aid Online have been helping us – if you notice their name in the address box of your browser, do not be alarmed; you really are in the right place.
Recent Blog Articles
April 15, 2026
Understanding the Access to Civil Justice Gap Across New Hampshire
April 15, 2026
A new statewide report, the 2025 New Hampshire Legal Needs Study: Mapping the Geography of Civil Legal Needs in the Granite State , provides the most comprehensive analysis to date of civil legal needs and access to justice across New Hampshire, highlighting both the scale of unmet need and opportunities for targeted solutions.
Read more &#8594;
April 15, 2026
March 10, 2025
Client Success Story: Legally Defective Notice
March 10, 2025
Keith was a 55-year-old man living alone in an apartment in Rochester. 603 Legal Aid (603LA) helped Keith defeat 2 evictions over the last year.
Keith’s 3rd eviction hearing took place on August 29th. Unfortunately, Keith couldn’t connect with 603LA until August 30th.
Read more &#8594;
March 10, 2025
February 24, 2025
Client Success Story: Representing Herself in Court
February 24, 2025
Recently, one of our attorneys Jeff was connected with a new client. Our client's hearing was on that Tuesday, and her abuser (who was represented by an attorney) had filed a cross Domestic Violence Protection Order against her, a Petition for Divorce, and an Ex Parte to regain access to the marital home. She felt inundated with these filings, was overwhelmed, and did not know what to do.
Read more &#8594;
February 24, 2025