CIRCUIT COURT FOR City/County , MARYLAND
Located at Court Address
Telephone
Case No.
IN THE MATTER OF:
Your current legal name
Street Address
City, State, Zip
FOR JUDICIAL DECLARATION OF GENDER IDENTITY AS:
Requested gender designation
PETITION FOR JUDICIAL DECLARATION OF GENDER IDENTITY OF AN ADULT
☐ WITH ☐ WITHOUT A NAME CHANGE
(Md. Rule 15-902)
NOTES: Use this form to ask the court to issue an order designating (affirming) your gender identity.
Your petition can include a request to change your name. If you only need an order changing your name,
file a Petition for Change of Name of an Adult (CC-DR-060) instead.
• File this petition in the county in which you live, carry on a regular business, work, habitually
engage in a vocation, or where you were born.
• Attach any documentation supporting your request.
• If you are asking for a judicial declaration of gender identity with a name change, attach a copy of
your birth certificate or any other document(s) with your current name (e.g., driver’s license, passport,
court order for change of name, divorce decree restoring your former name, adoption decree).
• The Clerk of Court is required by law to notify the State Board of Elections (SBE) of a court-ordered
change of name. The SBE database may still contain information linking your new name to your
former name, even if the case file is made confidential. Please contact the SBE to determine how to
request shielding of this information and/or to sever the link in the MDVOTERS database between
your new name and your former name.
Know before you file:
A court order is not necessary to update your gender marker on records with the Social Security
Administration, Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration, Maryland Division of Vital Records (for your
Maryland birth certificate), or the U.S. Department of State (for your passport). Talk to a lawyer about
administrative options for updating these types of records.
I, Your current name
, whose address is Address
, whose telephone number is Telephone number , and whose
e-mail address (if any) is Your e-mail address
, state that:
1. I was born on Date of birth in City, state, county, country .
2. I am filing this petition in this county/Baltimore City because I: (select one)
☐ live here. ☐ carry on a regular business here. ☐ work here.
☐ habitually engage in a vocation here. ☐ was born here.
3. I am requesting a court order declaring my gender identity as
Requested gender designationbecause:
CC-DR-120 (Rev. 08/2025) Page 1 of 2
Case No.
4. Complete this section if you are also requesting a change of name.
a. The name I was given at birth is Birth name .
Attach a copy of your birth certificate or any other document(s) with your current name
(e.g., driver’s license, passport, court order for change of name, divorce decree restoring
your former name, adoption decree).
b. Complete this section if it applies.
My name has been changed to the following since birth:
(List any reasons why your name may have changed since birth, for example, adoption,
marriage, etc.)
Name changed to: Reason:
c. I am requesting that my name be changed to Name you want to be known as
because:
d. Select one.
☐ I have never registered as a sexual offender in any state.
☐ I am registered or previously have been required to register as a sexual offender under the
following name(s):
Name(s) (including any suffix): State(s) where registration is/was required:
5. My request(s) is/are not for any illegal or fraudulent purpose.
FOR THESE REASONS, I request: (check all that apply)
☐ the court issue an order declaring my gender identity as Requested gender designation
.
☐ the court issue an order changing my name from:
Your current name to Name you want to be known as .
I, Your current name
, solemnly affirm under the penalties of perjury that the
contents of this document are true to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief.
Date Petitioner Signature
Printed Name
Street Address
City, State, Zip
Telephone
E-mail
CC-DR-120 (Rev. 08/2025) Page 2 of 2