Page 1 of 2
Amending or Correcting a Birth or Death Certificate
Per Nevada Administrative Code 440.023 & 440.030
Who can sign the Affidavit for Correction of a Record?
To correct a BIRTH CERTIFICATE, the person signing this affidavit must be the person of record, his or her parent,
guardian, or legal representative. Medical information (date of birth, time of birth, and facility name) must be completed
by the medical certifier.
To correct a DEATH CERTIFICATE, the person signing this affidavit must be a funeral director from the funeral home on
the certificate, the Informant, the medical certifier, or a coroner/medical examiner from the county listed on the death
certificate. Medical information (date of death, time of death, cause of death or any part of cause of death, social
security number, information concerning communicable disease or injury) must be completed by the medical certifier or
a coroner/medical examiner investigating the death.
What do I need to submit with the Affidavit for Correction of a Record?
Submit all of the following with the Affidavit for Correction of a Record. Only complete submissions will be processed.
1. Proof supporting the change being requested. An affidavit and a supplemental affidavit is required. A court
order may be used in replacement of an affidavit and the supplemental affidavit.
2. A copy of the photo identification from the person signing the Affidavit for Correction of a Record.
3. Payment made payable to the Office of Vital Records.
a. The payment of $45.00 includes the correction AND one certified copy of the corrected certificate.
b. Additional copies of birth certificates are $25.00 each. Additional copies of death certificates where the
death occurred in Clark, Carson, Douglas, Lyon, Mineral and Washoe counties are $25.00 each.
Additional death certificates where the death occurred in all other counties are $22.00 each.
c. The payment may be made by check, cashier’s check, money order or credit card.
d. To pay by credit card, an Authorization for Credit Card Use form must be completed and submitted with
a copy of the cardholder’s valid ID.
e. Please do not mail in cash.
How do I properly complete the Affidavit for Correction of a Record form?
This is a legal document. Please type or print clearly in blue or black ink only. Affidavits with illegible writing, any white
outs, cross outs or write overs will be returned. Cross outs with initials will not be accepted.
• The Affidavit for Correction of a Record must be completed in its entirety to be processed.
• The affidavit must be notarized.
• The person signing should be at least 18 years old. Signatures of a minor must also have a parent or legal
guardian signature.
• Please ensure the sections titled “Statement of Corrections” and “Why Corrections are Necessary” are clear and
accurate.
Where do I send the Affidavit for Correction of a Record and supporting documents?
Office of Vital Records and Statistics
Attn: Corrections
4150 Technology Way, Suite 104
Carson City, Nevada 89706
Please allow up to 4-6 weeks to process your request. For any questions, please contact us at (775) 684-4242 or email us
at ovrpac@health.nv.gov. Please provide the name of the applicant, the person of record, and applicant’s phone
number.
Page 2 of 2
Birth and Death Correction Evidence Charts
Birth Correction Evidence
Type of Correction Who Can Submit Correction? Affidavit or Court
Order?
Supplemental Affidavit
Acceptable?
Name Change
(Less than 1 year) Parents Affidavit Yes
Name Change
(Older than 1 year) Person of Record or Parents Court Order Certified Copy of Court Order
Name Correction -
Misspelling
(Less than 1 year)
Parents Affidavit Yes
Name Correction -
Misspelling
(Older than 1 year)
Person of Record or Parents Court Order Certified Copy of Court Order
Gender Change Medical Certifier on Record,
Person of Record or Parents Affidavit Yes, with Affidavit
Not required with court order
Parent Information Person of Record or Parents Affidavit Yes
Medical Information Medical Certifier on Record Affidavit Yes
*Court orders can be used in replacement of an affidavit and supplemental affidavit
Death Correction Evidence Chart
Type of Correction Who Can Submit Correction? Affidavit Supplemental Affidavit
Acceptable?
Name Change Informant Yes Yes
Name Correction -
Misspelling Funeral Home or Informant Yes Yes
Decedent Information Funeral Home or Informant Yes Yes
Parental Information Funeral Home or Informant Yes Yes
Spouse Information Court Order No No
Informant
Information Funeral Home or Informant Yes Yes
Medical Information Medical Certifier of Record Yes Yes
*Court orders can be used in replacement of an affidavit and supplemental affidavit