Free Legal Help in Southeast and Central Ohio
The mission of Legal Aid of Southeast and Central Ohio (LASCO) is to provide civil legal aid and advocacy to overcome unfairness and injustice to reduce poverty and increase opportunity. LASCO offers free noncriminal legal help for people with low incomes, veterans, and seniors in 36 counties.
Get Help
Click Here for 2019-2022 Tax Relief Information for Some Ohioans
How We Can Help You
LASCO provides free legal help and resources for noncriminal issues like these:
Consumer Problems
Education
Family Law
Housing
Health Care
Immigration
Public Benefits
Reentry
Seniors
Tax
Veterans
Work
More Self-Help Resources
Apply For Help Online
Serving 36 Counties
LASCO is deeply rooted in the communities we serve. Our team serves clients from local offices in eight Ohio communities.
Athens
Newark
Chillicothe
Columbus
Marion
New Philadelphia
Portsmouth
Steubenville
Donate to Support Our Work
LASCO provides a vital community service: civil legal help. Unlike in criminal cases, Ohioans are not guaranteed representation in civil matters, which results in unequal access to justice. Your support helps ensure that southeast and Central Ohioans have access to legal help and resources when they need it.
Donate
Fair Housing Center of
Southeast and Central Ohio
A project of LASCO, the Fair Housing of Southeast and Central Ohio helps ensure that Ohioans have access to housing free of discrimination.
Visit Fair Housing Center
Are you a parent of a child under the age of 21 looking for additional help?
Ohio Department of Children and Youth have Parent & Youth Ambassadors available to offer support around any type of need. Whether it be lactation support, finding childcare for a child with special needs, or even something more complex involving a child dealing with multiple systems, PYAs are there as a support to help open doors and get families the supports and assistance they need. Visit their
website or make a request for support at
Ambassadors@childrenandyouth.ohio.gov or by calling the DCY Family and Customer Support Center 844-234-KIDS (5437) *Option 5.
Our website features software from Recite Me, which lets visitors view and use our website in the way that works best for them. Recite Me's web accessibility and language toolbar makes our site accessible to the millions of Americans who have vision impairments, learning disabilities, are neurodivergent, and/or speak a language other than English at home.
Get Help
Main Office:
1108 City Park Ave
Suite 100
Columbus, OH 43206
General Office Phone:
614.221.7201
General Office Fax: 614.221.7625*
*This fax line is not monitored by staff attorneys or case handlers. To reach your attorney or case handler, fax them directly.
Our Privacy Policy
Share by: