tags on every page of your site.
-->
Skip to Main Content
Wyoming Medicaid
Wyoming Medicaid is a joint federal and state government program that pays for medical care for some low-income and medically needy individuals and families.
Contact Info:
122 W 25th St., 4th Floor West
Cheyenne, WY 82001
(307) 777-7531
Fax: (307) 777-6964
Home &raquo; Healthcare Financing &raquo; Wyoming Medicaid
Skip to Page Content
Wyoming Medicaid
Use our Online Web Portal to easily apply for or renew Medicaid or Kid Care Chip!
CLICK HERE NOW
&#57601;
Eligibility Guidelines
i
Paper Application
l
Call 1 (855) 294-2127 to Apply or Renew
Medicaid Renewals Continue
You may receive text messages and mail when it's time to renew Medicaid or Kid Care CHIP for yourself or for a family member:
Do not ignore these important messages and forms!
If you receive a text message from WDH asking you to renew, watch your mail for a Medicaid renewal form. This form must be completed, signed and returned. You can complete renewals online at https://www.wesystem.wyo.gov , mail or drop off to the address on the renewal notice, fax to 1-855-329-5205, email to wesapplications@wyo.gov or call using the number on the notice.
To prevent your case from closing, please don't delay.
Public Notices and Important Updates:
State Plan Amendment (SPA) Public Notices
Information
Information
To apply for Medicaid/Kid Care CHIP or for Medicaid/Kid Care CHIP application status, please call 1-855-294-2127 , or 1-855-329-5204 TTY/TDD.
WYhealth &ndash; This link directs you to Wyoming Medicaid's Care Management program and includes helpful information for members, families, stakeholders, and providers.
Prior Authorization & Utilization Management &ndash; This link directs you to Utilization Management activities for Wyoming Medicaid. Helpful information for providers and stakeholders.
Eligibility &ndash; This link directs you to information on who may be eligible for Medicaid and how to apply.
Medicaid Provider/Client Portal &ndash; This link directs you to the Medicaid provider and client portal. Providers can check status of claims, benefits and services. Clients may check eligibility or benefits and request a replacement Medicaid ID card or transportation assistance.
Well Child Checkups! &ndash; This link directs you to our Well Child Checkup page with information on the importance of preventive screening for children and what to expect.
Home Care Services &ndash; This link directs you to a Medicaid program that provides nursing or therapy services to persons in their homes under a physician's plan of care.
Partnership Access Line (PAL) &ndash; Resources for clinicians providing care to our children clients with developmental disabilities. Please click here for information about free consultation with a child/adolescent psychiatrist on any patient, and a valuable link to Resources for Wyoming providers in the Primary Care Principles for Child Mental Health.
Healthcare Provider
Healthcare Provider
Enroll as a Wyoming Medicaid Provider
Provider FAQ
Accessing the IVR System
Medicaid providers can use this email address to submit comments, concerns, complaints and compliments: HCFProviders@wyo.gov
Submit a Psychiatric Rehabilitation Treatment Facility (PRTF) incident report &ndash; If you are a PRTF and need to report an incident.
Pulse of CMS
Publications
Medicaid Publications
2026 Healthcare Coverage Options in Wyoming
SFY 2025 Annual Report
SFY 2025 Wyoming Medicaid Per Member Per Month Report
2026 Child Medicaid and CHIP CAHPS General Population Summary Report
2026 Child Medicaid and CHIP CAHPS Chronic Population Summary Report
2026 Adult Medicaid CAHPS Summary Report
2025 Child Medicaid and CHIP CAHPS General Population Summary Report
2025 Child Medicaid and CHIP CAHPS Chronic Population Summary Report
2025 Adult Medicaid CAHPS Summary Report
2024 Child Medicaid CAHPS Summary Report
SFY 2024 Wyoming Medicaid Per Member Per Month Report
2024 Wyoming Medicaid Birth Report
SFY2025 Benchmarking Report
Appendices A-I
Appendix A: Methodology and Data Sources
Appendix B.1: Comparison of Wyoming Medicaid Rates to Benchmarks, by Service Area
Appendix B.2: Total SFY 2025 Medicaid Expenditures for Top Procedures Used in Analysis, By Service Area
Appendix C: Hospital Cost Benchmarks
Appendix D: Medicare Reimbursement Methodology
Appendix E: Summary of Health Care Inflation Indices
Appendix F: Wyoming Medicaid Rate History
Appendix G: Glossary
Appendix H: Acronyms
Appendix I: Reimbursement Trends
Well Child Checkups!
Medicaid Member Handbook for Adults
Medicaid and Kid Care CHIP Member Handbook for Children
Medicaid Member Handbook for Pregnant Women
Medicaid Member Handbook -Spanish
Estate Recovery Pamphlet
Medicaid Bulletins and Manuals
Pregnant By Choice Brochure
Wyoming Medicaid Provider Exclusion List (09/01/2026)
Publication Archives
Electronic Medicaid Waiver System Training
Electronic Medicaid Waiver System (EMWS) Training
Click on the link below to open the EMWS training instructions.
Training Agenda
Computer Instruction Guide
EMWS Training Instructions
Training Evalution
Microsoft Lync Conferencing Instructions
Women, Infants & Children (WIC) Information Sharing and Opting Out
Women, Infants & Children (WIC) Information Sharing and Opting Out
The Wyoming Women, Infants & Children (WIC) Program offers benefits to low-income women who are pregnant, breastfeeding, or who just had a baby, and families with children under the age of 5. Nutritious food items, as well as many other benefits, are available for many Wyoming families through WIC. In order to facilitate eligibility of Wyoming families for WIC services, Wyoming Medicaid automatically shares Medicaid application information with state or local WIC offices.
Anyone who wishes for their Medicaid application information not to be automatically shared with WIC can complete the Medicaid-WIC Online Opt-Out Form at this link .
u
Questions & Concerns