5) ? true : false; "
>
Our Anacostia Office Has Moved!
Our new office is now open at 1911 Martin Luther King Jr. Ave. SE . The office at the Big Chair is now closed. Come see us in our new space!
Access to Justice
Washingtonians shouldn't have to navigate a legal crisis alone.
Learn More
Our Top Budget Concerns
Check Out the 2025 Annual Report
Explore the Report
Give to Legal Aid
Free legal help for
Washington, DC
Get Help
Legal Help Library
Pictured: Former client Ruby Short
Join us in our mission
Careers and Internships
Donate Now!
Previous
01
/
04
Next
We’re here to help you
Housing Law
Our Work for Tenants
Public Benefits
Our Work for Public Benefit Recipients
Family Law and Domestic Violence
Our Work for Families and Domestic Violence Survivors
Consumer Law
Our Work for Consumers and Homeowners
Reentry
Our Work for People with Criminal Records
Immigration
Our Work for Immigrants
Appeals
Our Work on Appellate Issues
Previous
Next
Help make justice real in DC
Providing free legal assistance for DC residents is just a click away. Join us in our mission.
Donate now
About Us
Legal Aid DC is the District’s oldest and largest civil legal services organization. Since 1932, Legal Aid DC lawyers have helped make justice real in individual and systemic ways in the District.
After being known as the “Legal Aid Society of the District of Columbia” for 90 years, in 2022, we took out the "Society, and we are now "Legal Aid DC.”
Pictured: Former client Shanita Womack (c) with her Legal Aid DC attorneys.
About Us
Careers and Internships
Initiatives that Impact Change
Stay Connected
Join Our Community Newsletter
Sign up to hear from Legal Aid DC about opportunities to join our advocacy on legal issues that matter to our client community; upcoming community legal events such as intake clinics and Know Your Rights trainings; and more!
Pictured: Former Legal Aid DC client and advocate Magnolia Alvarez Velasquez (center) with her children.
Sign Up Now!
Contribute your time and talent
Pro Bono Opportunities
By taking a case, pro bono attorneys can make an immediate and lasting impact on the lives of their clients.
Pictured: Former client Gloria Alston (c) with her pro bono attorneys
Learn More
April 9, 2024
Servant of Justice Awards Dinner
The 2024 Servant of Justice Awards Dinner will recognize honorees who have demonstrated faithful dedication and remarkable achievement in ensuring that all people have equal and meaningful access to justice.
Learn More
Previous
01
/
03
Next
Keith&#039;s Story of Hope | Housing Law
Keith King came home to an eviction notice on his door. Mr. King’s landlord sued him for nonpayment of rent but never notified him of the eviction lawsuit. With Legal Aid DC’s help, Mr. King got the eviction judgment vacated, finding that his subsidy provider had simply stopped making payments to the landlord. Legal Aid DC also helped Mr. King find a new apartment closer to friends and family, with a new subsidy provider.
Read Keith King&#039;s full story
View all Client Stories
Leticia&#039;s story of hope | Public Benefits Law
Leticia Flores receives Personal Care Aide in-home services for 16 hours a day, but her hours were reduced after an assessment despite no change in her condition. With Legal Aid DC’s help, Ms. Flores challenged the reduction, ultimately getting her hours restored.
Read Leticia Flores&#039;s full story
View all Client Stories
Alvonette&#039;s story of Hope | Public Benefits Law
Alvonette Grimes fell behind on her mortgage after a debilitating car accident, but her mortgage company denied her application for a loan modification. With Legal Aid DC’s help, Ms. Grimes was able to get the modification and catch up on her mortgage payments.
Read Alvonette Grimes&#039;s full story
View all Client Stories
Previous
01
/
03
Next
Upcoming Events
Oct
1
2026
Securing Your Legacy: DC Estate Planning Workshop and Free Legal Clinic
Northeast Neighborhood Library
Oct
17
2026
Ward 6 Health Day
Eastern Market Metro Plaza
Latest Blogs
22 Sep 2026
In Its First Year, the DC Resource Bridge Connected Thousands of DC Residents to Free Legal Help
Developed by the DC Bar Foundation and hosted by Legal Aid DC, the program has received more than 3,850 inquiries and connected residents with free and low-cost legal assistance through a network of 30 partner organizations.
Read More
16 Sep 2026
Legal Aid welcomes six attorneys in 2026 cohort class
The attorneys will bolster Legal Aid’s systemic, public benefits, housing, and consumer law work.
Read More
01 Sep 2026
Legal Aid DC, Amara Legal Center Unite to Expand Legal Help for Sex Trafficking Survivors
Amara Legal Center’s Staff to Join Legal Aid DC’s Family Law and Domestic Violence Unit, Continue Work for DC Survivors
Read More
Proud members of
Safety Exit