Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-2
Current as of January 01, 2026 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
Sec. 2 . (a) The petition described in section 1 of this chapter must:
(1) if applicable, include the information required by section 2.5 of this chapter;
(2) in the case of a petition filed by a person described in section 2.5 of this chapter, be subscribed and sworn to (or affirmed):
(A) under the penalties of perjury; and
(B) before a notary public or other person authorized to administer oaths; and
(3) be filed with the circuit court, superior court, or probate court of the county in
which the person resides.
(b) In the case of a parent or guardian who wishes to change the name of a minor child,
the petition must be verified, and it must state in detail the reason the change is
requested. In addition, except where a parent's consent is not required under IC 31-19-9 , the written consent of a parent, or the written consent of the guardian if both
parents are dead, must be filed with the petition.
(c) Before a minor child's name may be changed, the parents or guardian of the child
must be served with a copy of the petition as required by the Indiana trial rules.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-2 - last updated January 01, 2026 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/in/title-34-civil-law-and-procedure/in-code-sect-34-28-2-2/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Indiana Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
Surrogate Seeks U.S. Supreme Court Stay in Newborn Parentage Dispute
The ABA Just Repealed Its Diversity and Inclusion Standard
Virginia Draws the Line on Overdose Immunity
Oh, Say, Can You See: Can Your Neighbor’s Security Cameras Legally Point at Your Property?
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat