CIRCUIT COURT FOR City/County , MARYLAND
Located at Court Address Telephone
Case No.
IN THE MATTER OF:
Minor’s current legal name
Address
City, State, Zip
FOR CHANGE OF NAME TO:
Name you want the minor to be known as
PETITION FOR CHANGE OF NAME OF A MINOR
(Md. Rule 15-901)
NOTES: Use this form to ask the court the change a minor child’s name. File it in the county in which the
minor lives or where you or another parent, guardian, or custodian live. Do not use this form to change the
name of a child in connection with an adoption. To ask the court for a judicial declaration of gender
identity (with or without a name change), file a Petition for Judicial Declaration of Gender Identity of a
Minor (form CC-DR-121) instead.
• Attach a copy of the minor’s birth certificate or any other document(s) with the minor’s current name
(e.g., driver’s license, passport, court order for change of name, adoption decree).
• If the minor is at least ten years old, attach their written consent or objection. They can use form
CC-DR-119 (Minor’s Consent/Objection to Change of Name).
• You must inform all parents, guardians, or custodians about your request to change a minor’s
name.
o They can consent or object to the minor’s change of name in writing using the
Parent’s/Guardian’s/Custodian’s Consent/Objection to Change of Name (form CC-DR-063).
File their consent or objection with this petition.
o If a parent’s, guardian’s, or custodian’s consent or objection is not included with your petition,
you need to serve (provide) them with copies of the petition and any documents you file with
the court, and a notice that the court will issue. If they cannot be located to receive these
documents, file a Motion for Alternate Service and Affidavit (form CC-DR-070). Learn more
about service at mdcourts.gov/video/selfhelp/service-process.
• File a Petition to Seal or Otherwise Limit Inspection of a Case Record (form CC-DC-053) if you do
not want the public to access case records associated with this petition.
• Learn more at https://mdcourts.gov/legalhelp/family/namechange.
I, Your name , whose address is Address
, whose telephone number is Telephone number ,
and whose e-mail address (if any) is E-mail address , state that:
1. I am the ☐ parent ☐ guardian ☐ custodian of Minor’s current name
.
CC-DR-062 (Rev. 01/2023) Page 1 of 4
Case No.
2. Venue. I am filing this petition in this county/Baltimore City because (select one):
☐ the minor lives here.
☐ I live here.
☐
☐
☐ e
Name
who is the minor’s ☐ parent ☐ guardian ☐ custodian, lives here.
3. The minor was born on Date of birth in City, state, county, country
and current lives at Minor’s address .
4. The name the minor was given at birth is Birth name of minor .
5. Complete this section if it applies.
The minor’s name has been changed to the following since birth for the following reasons:
(List any reasons why the minor’s name may have changed since birth, for example, adoption.)
Name changed to: Reason:
6. Select one:
The minor never registered as a sexual offender in any state.
The minor is registered or previously has been required to register as a sexual offender under th
following name(s):
Name(s) (including any suffix): State(s) where registration is/was required:
7. I am requesting that the minor’s name be changed to Name you want the minor to be known as because:
8. This change of name is in the minor’s best interest because:
CC-DR-062 (Rev. 01/2023) Page 2 of 4
Case No.
9. Select one:
☐ The minor is at least ten (10) years old and (select one):
☐ consents (agrees) to this name change.
☐ objects to (opposes) this name change.
Attach their written consent or objection.
☐ The minor is under the age of ten (10) and (select one):
☐ does not object to (agrees with) this name change. (Select this if the minor supports the
change, does not have a preference, or is too young or otherwise unable to state a
preference.)
☐ objects to (disagrees with) this name change.
10. The following people are a parent, guardian, or custodian of the minor (attach additional sheets if
needed):
Name:
Address:
Telephone: E-mail (if any):
This person: Select all that apply:
☐ consents to the change of name. Attached is their written consent.
☐ has not consented at this time because Reason(s) why written consent is not attached
☐
☐
☐
☐
☐
☐
☐
☐
.
is not identified or listed on the birth certificate.
cannot be found.
has died (attach a copy of their death certificate).
does not or may not speak or be able to read English. They do or may be able
to understand Language .
Name:
Address:
Telephone: E-mail (if any):
This person: Select all that apply:
consents to the change of name. Attached is their written consent.
has not consented at this time because Reason(s) why written consent is not attached .
is not identified or listed on the birth certificate.
cannot be found.
☐ has died (attach a copy of their death certificate).
☐ does not or may not speak or be able to read English. They do or may be able
to understand Language .
11. I am not requesting this name change for any illegal or fraudulent purpose.
CC-DR-062 (Rev. 01/2023) Page 3 of 4
Case No.
FOR THESE REASONS, I request the court to issue an order changing the minor’s name from
Minor’s current name to Name you want the minor to be known as .
I, Your name
, solemnly affirm under the penalties of perjury, that the contents of
this document are true to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief.
Date Petitioner’s Signature
Printed Name
Address
City, State, Zip
Telephone
E-mail
CC-DC-062 (Rev. 01/2023) Page 4 of 4