Go to Content
Gender-Affirming Care
Planned Parenthood California Central Coast is proud to provide quality, compassionate care to transgender, intersex, non-binary, and gender non-confirming patients. We are committed to improving the way transgender people receive health care in our community, including eliminating barriers to that care.
Book Online
Call Us
We offer gender-affirming care for patients 16 years and older* at all of our Central Coast California health center locations. We work with you to provide safe care based on your goals, no matter what insurance you have. Your informed consent is all you need to get started. Telehealth follow-up appointments are available.
We welcome patients of all genders and identities and offer a wide range of health care services. If you need services other than hormone therapy, talk to your provider.
*Parental or guardian consent is required for those 16 and 17 years of age.
Find a Health Center
Estrogen and Anti-Androgen Hormone Therapy
Also known as feminizing hormone therapy, treatment may include estrogen and anti-androgen medications.
Testosterone Hormone Therapy
Also known as masculinizing hormone therapy, testosterone can be prescribed in forms such as injections or topical gel.
Gender-Affirming Surgery Referrals
Our team can help connect patients with surgeons and specialists for gender-affirming procedures, such as top surgery, bottom surgery, facial feminization surgery (FFS), and facial masculinization surgery (FMS).
Schedule a visit with us to discuss your goals for surgery and get the documents you need. We can fax the filled-out documents to your preferred surgeon. If you would like help finding a surgeon, talk to our care navigators to determine which ones may be a good fit.
Transition Resources
We can help you change your legal name and gender marker. We can also help you understand your insurance coverage and find specialists like therapists, surgeons, voice coaches, and hair removal providers.
Learn more about how to update your name and gender on state and federal IDs and records through the National Center for Transgender Equality.
Mental Health Consultations
If you would like to speak with one of our Behavioral Health staff, we can set up a visit for you.
A telehealth visit is a lot like a visit in one of our health centers, but all contact with your provider happens through a video call.
You can take a video call using a computer, tablet, or your smartphone. If it’s your first gender-affirming care appointment, we may ask you to have your blood drawn at a lab of your choice or at your nearest Planned Parenthood.
*Patients 16 and 17 years of age must have their first visit in-person at a health center with a parent or guardian present. Follow-up appointments can then be conducted via Telehealth. Parents and guardians are not required to attend follow-up visits.
Telehealth Appointments
Planned Parenthood California Central Coast offers services at low or no cost. Fees are determined on a sliding scale, based on your income and family size. We accept cash and major credit cards for any payment. All services are provided at the lowest cost possible, and you can call us anytime to discuss payment options.
Private insurance
Gender-affirming care may be covered by your insurance. We accept most private health plans for all of our services. If you want to use your insurance, please be sure to provide your insurance information when scheduling your appointment . Please call us at (888) 898-3806 to learn more about coverage under specific plans. We are happy to verify your coverage and benefits so that you will know your financial responsibility at the time of your appointment.
You will not need to change into a gown or have an exam. Other services such as testing for pregnancy , sexually transmitted infections , or cervical cancer are available and may be recommended, but are not required.
A typical first visit will take 1-2 hours. Follow-up visits are usually shorter.
In your first year of hormone therapy, you should plan for four visits with blood tests: your first visit, at the 3-month follow-up, at the 6-month follow-up, and at the 12-month follow-up.
You may need more visits based on your history, medications, and test results.
During these visits, your provider may talk to you about changing your hormone dose. You may need to change your dose because of side effects, your health, or your goals. Most patients will need to get their blood drawn again three months after a change in dose occurs. After the first year of hormones, most patients will only need a yearly visit. These visits will track your progress and include blood tests.
How do I complete my blood tests?
Your provider will order regular blood tests to track your progress and health. You can have your blood drawn at Planned Parenthood or at a lab of your choice. You can let us know which location is most convenient for you. Our staff will contact you for any follow-up care based on your results.
How do I order refills?
Call us at 888-898-3806 or request a refill through your patient portal. Please request refills at least 1-2 weeks in advance. Going to all of your visits and completing your blood tests as scheduled will help you get refills on time.
What changes can hormone therapy cause?
Possible effects of estrogen therapy:
Breast development
Body fat redistribution
Reduced body hair growth
Changes in libido
Emotional changes
Possible effects of testosterone therapy:
Voice deepening
Increased facial and body hair
Increased muscle mass
Body fat redistribution
Menstrual changes
How do I get Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT)?
The first step is scheduling an appointment . During your visit, you'll discuss your goals, medical history, and treatment options with a clinician.
How old do I need to be to receive hormone therapy?
We offer hormone therapy for patients 16 years and older. Parental or guardian consent is required for patients 16 and 17 years of age. This is mandated by the state of California and a standard of care for gender-affirming hormone therapy. Both parents, if applicable, will be required to sign consent forms and appear in person at the initial patient visit with their teen. If only one parent or guardian is the sole decision maker for their teen, their consent will be sufficient and required.
Parents will not need to attend follow-up visits. Additionally, future patient visits may be conducted via telehealth.
Does insurance cover hormone therapy?
Many insurance plans, including Medi-Cal, may cover hormone therapy and related services. Coverage varies by plan. Call us for a cost estimate.
Is it too late to start transitioning?
No, it's never too late to begin exploring gender-affirming care. Every person's journey is unique. We’re here to answer any questions you may have. Schedule an appointment or call us to learn more .
How long does it take for HRT to work?
Changes occur gradually and vary from person to person. Your clinician can discuss expected timelines based on your treatment plan. Learn more about HRT.
Can I continue hormone therapy if I started somewhere else?
In many cases, yes. Our clinicians can discuss your current treatment and help determine the best next steps. Call or book online to get started today.
What is informed consent hormone therapy?
We use an informed consent model for gender-affirming hormone therapy. This means you can discuss the benefits, risks, and expectations of treatment directly with your clinician and make decisions about your care together. Call or book online to get started.
Do I need a therapist letter to start HRT?
No. Many patients are surprised to learn they do not need a therapist referral before discussing hormone therapy options. And if you have questions about eligibility, our team can help. Call or book a consultation online to learn more.
Can Planned Parenthood provide surgery referrals?
Yes. We can connect patients with surgeons and other specialists who provide gender-affirming surgical procedures. Schedule a visit with us to discuss your goals for surgery and get the documents you need. We can fax the filled-out documents to your preferred surgeon. If you would like help finding a surgeon, talk to our care navigators to determine which ones may be a good fit.
Self-Injection Videos
Introduction to Estrogen Based Hormone Therapy
Introduction to Testosterone Based Hormone Therapy
Transitioning at Work
GAC Effects Timeline
Whether you’re exploring your options, starting hormone therapy, continuing treatment, or seeking support during your transition, Planned Parenthood California Central Coast is here to help. Our clinicians provide gender-affirming care in a welcoming, respectful environment where your goals, identity and health needs come first.
We offer gender-affirming care at all 6 of our Central Coast locations.
San Luis Obispo • Santa Maria • Santa Barbara • Ventura • Oxnard • Thousand Oaks
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all