top of page
HORMONE THERAPY SERVICES
&ldquo;Helping people be who they are.&rdquo;
HHHRC's clinic, in coordination with the Kuaʻana Project , provides a patient-centered affirming environment where patients can receive hormone therapy as well as engage in an ongoing relationship with a primary care provider and a peer-mentor to address the full spectrum of a patient's social, health, and wellness needs.
HHHRC provides care coordination tailored for patients that need additional support. Our peer navigators offer information, assistance, and referrals regarding benefits and entitlements including insurance, legal document updates, housing, and referrals to other supportive services.
We monitor for progress towards the patient's healthcare goals with regular lab work and patient-centered follow up.
Hormone Therapy Health Services include:
Primary Care
Chest/Breast Health
Safe, evidence-based medication prescribing
Practice within the evidence-based national guidelines
Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) Screenings & Treatment
HIV/AIDS Testing, Treatment & Prevention, including PrEP and PEP
Referral for mental health services
Referral for surgical needs
Harm Reduction Counseling
Group Support Circles
Care Coordination
​ ​
About Hormones
The body is constructed of many different types of hormones that help make up our DNA (internal appearance), outward appearance, and physical characteristics.
Sex hormones play a big role in the development of physical traits and how the body functions, especially in relation to gender characteristics. For adults who are making changes to align their physical traits with their gender identity, the use of these hormones can help bring about changes that match how they feel inside. There are three main types of sex hormones: estrogen, testosterone, and progesterone.
Estrogen: This hormone is usually associated with female traits. It helps in developing features like breast growth, softer skin, and changes in fat distribution (like around the hips). It can also affect mood and emotional well-being.
Testosterone: This hormone is usually linked with male traits. It helps build muscle mass, deepens the voice, and causes facial and body hair to grow. It can also influence energy levels and libido.
Progesterone: Often paired with estrogen, this hormone can play a role in regulating the menstrual cycle and maintaining reproductive health. It can also affect mood and well-being.
These hormones are often used in combination with other medications to help bring about the desired changes, whether it's for softening certain traits or developing more masculine or feminine characteristics. It's important to note that these hormones should always be managed by a healthcare provider to ensure safety and proper dosage, as the effects and risks can vary from person to person.
​ ​
Testosterone Replacement Therapy Services
Testosterone replacement is when a medical provider prescribes testosterone therapy for male patients because their body isn't making enough of it. Testosterone is a hormone that helps with functions like muscle strength, energy, and even mood. If a man has low testosterone, he might feel tired, have brain fog, difficulty remembering things, trouble building muscle, or even feel sad or depressed.
Our provider screens for and does a complete history and physical exam to rule out other reasons for low testosterone, low libido, and decreased sexual function. We monitor progress towards your healthcare goals with regular lab work and patient follow up.
Testosterone replacement helps give the body the right amount of this hormone so you can feel better. This can be done in different ways, like through a shot, a patch, or even a gel that you rub on your skin. The goal is to bring the testosterone levels back to normal, so you feel more like yourself again.
It's important that this is done under a provider's care because getting the right amount of testosterone is key to staying healthy and feeling better. ​
INTERESTED IN HORMONE THERAPY WITH HHHRC?
Use the form below to get in touch with our team!
First Name
Last name
Email Address
I would like to request: *
An appointment for in-office hormone therapy services
An appointment to talk with a provider about hormone therapy services
An appointment to talk with a Peer Navigator about Kuaʻana Project resources
In addition to my consultation or appointment, I would also like:
Condoms
Lube
Other safe sex supplies
Sexual health counseling
Sexual health testing
Preferred appointment date: * required
Mailing Address
Phone Number
How would you prefer to be contacted by us?
Email
Phone
Comments (optional)
SUBMIT
Your request has been received. Mahalo!
bottom of page