Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Missouri Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. Publication in a newspaper is required unless you qualify for an exception.
Name Change (Minor): Yes . Consent from at least one parent is required. Publication in a newspaper is required unless you qualify for an exception.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name is required to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes . A court order or letter from a physician confirming gender affirming surgery is required.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name is required.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes . A court order or letter from a physician confirming gender affirming surgery is required.
Restrictions Based on Past Criminal Convictions: None.
Missouri Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Missouri , you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find the circuit court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
You may not change your name for a fraudulent purpose, to avoid creditors, or to infringe on the rights of another person.
Step 1: Complete & Notarize the Name Change Petition
In order to start the name change process, you must complete the CAFC401: Petition for Change of Name (For Adult Individual) .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here.
Step 2: Gather & File Required Documents at the Circuit Court
You will need to gather and file the required documents listed below with the circuit court of your county of residence. You can find the circuit court in your county of residence here .
All the required forms are available on the Missouri Courts webpage. You must save each form before you begin entering information in the form fields. It is recommended that you use Acrobat Reader DC (or Adobe Acrobat DC) to ensure the forms work as intended.
You will need:
Confidential Case Filing Information Sheet (FI-10)
Redaction Certification (GN320)
Petition for Change of Name (For Adult Individual) (CAFC401)
Judgment for Change of Name of Adult Individual (CAFC470)
Request for Publication after Judgment of Change of Name for Adult Individual (CAFC480)
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (check with the local Circuit Court as the fee varies)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the In Forma Pauperis Application (GN10) .
Step 3: Attend the Hearing or File Affidavit (dependent on county)
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court may schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend. In most cases, a hearing is not scheduled. You should check with the court clerk in your county to see if an appearance is required or if additional forms (such as an affidavit) are needed.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
If you are not required to attend a hearing, you may be required to file an Affidavit of Judgment rather than the Judgment for Name Change of Adult Individual. This requirement may vary from county to county. You can find this form for your county of residence on your county court website or by contacting your county clerk. For reference, here is the affidavit of judgement for St. Louis County. If you are required to file an affidavit, you will also need to bring a copy of your birth certificate to the courthouse.
Step 4: Issue of Judgement
Once your name change petition is reviewed and approved by the court, a judgment will be issued.
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your circuit court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested.
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Step 5: Publish Notice of Your Name Change in Your Local Newspaper
Missouri has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which you live. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
Finalizing your name change is dependent on this publication requirement. Public notice should be given at least once a week for three consecutive weeks within 20 days of receiving the receipt of judgement.
If no newspaper is published in your county of residence or any adjacent county, you can publish notice of your name change in a publication in St. Louis or Jefferson City.
The publication requirement can be waived if you are the victim of child abuse or domestic violence. If you meet this eligibility for a publication waiver, you can indicate so on your name change petition.
Additionally, you will need to file proof of publication with the Office of the Clerk (also called the Court Administrator's Office) within 10 days after the date of the last publication.
Missouri Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically a parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find the circuit court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
You may not change your name for a fraudulent purpose, to avoid creditors, or to infringe on the rights of others. A name change must be sought in the best interest of the minor.
Step 1: Appointment of Next Friend
In order to start the name change process, a next friend (typically a parent or guardian) must be appointed to the minor to complete this process on your behalf.
To establish your parent as a next friend, they will need to complete the Petition, Consent and Order for Parent's Appointment as Next Friend (CAFC411) .
If you are 14 years and older, you will have to sign and consent to who is being appointed as your next friend.
Step 2: Complete & Notarize the Name Change Petition
Next, the next friend will then complete the Petition for Change of Name by Parent (For Minor Child) (CAFC402) on your behalf.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
Step 3: Obtain Parental Consent
Consent from all known and legal parents is required to grant a minor name change.
If all known parents consent with the name change, the non-petitioning parent will need to complete Consent to Minor Child's Change of Name (CAFC412) .
If a known legal parent does not consent to the requested name change, they will still need to be notified through the serving process. You will need to have them served with the following documents: 1) a copy of Petition for Change of Name by Parent (For Minor Child) (CAFC402) and 2) a Notice of Hearing (CAFC721) .
All of these documents must be served to the non-consenting parent at least 30 days before the hearing date. This can be done by registered or certified mail. Make sure to request a return receipt as you will need to bring this to your hearing.
After the other parent has been served with the proper documents above, you will need to file proof of service with the court clerk. Please contact your local circuit court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation for your county.
If any known parents do not support the minor's name change, the minor and the next friend may wish to consult with an attorney before filing.
Step 4: Gather & File Required Documents at the Circuit Court
You will need to gather and file the required documents listed below with the circuit court of your county of residence. You can find the circuit court in your county of residence here .
All the required forms are available on the Missouri Courts webpage. You must save each form before you begin entering information in the form fields. You must use Acrobat Reader DC (or Adobe Acrobat DC) to ensure the forms work as intended.
You will need:
Confidential Case Filing Information Sheet (FI-10)
Redaction Certification (GN320)
Petition for Change of Name by Parent (For Minor Child) (CAFC402)
Petition, Consent and Order for Parent's Appointment as Next Friend (CAFC411)
Consent to Minor Child's Change of Name (CAFC412)
Request for Service by Publication (CAFC712)
Judgment for Change of Name of Minor Child (CAFC472)
Request for Publication after Judgment of Change of Name for Minor Child (CAFC482)
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (check with the local Circuit Court as the fee varies)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver through a In Forma Pauperis Application (GN10) .
Step 5: Attend the Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court may schedule a hearing, which you and your next friend will be required to attend. In most minor name change cases, a hearing is required. You should check with the court clerk in your county for additional specific requirements.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your next friend further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
Step 6: Issue of Judgement
Once your name change petition is reviewed and approved by the court, a judgment will be issued.
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your circuit court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested. Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Step 7: Publish Notice of Your Name Change in Your Local Newspaper
Missouri has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which you live. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
Finalizing your name change is dependent on this publication requirement. Public notice should be given at least once a week for three consecutive weeks within 20 days of receiving the receipt of judgement.
If no newspaper is published in your county of residence or an adjacent county, you can publish notice of your name change in a publication in St. Louis or Jefferson City.
The publication requirement can be waived if you are the victim of a crime, the victim of child abuse, or the victim of domestic abuse. If you meet this eligibility for a publication waiver, you can indicate so on your name change petition.
Additionally, you will need to file proof of publication with the Office of the Clerk (in some courts this is called the Court Administrator's Office) within 10 days after the date of the last publication.
Missouri Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Missouri Department of Health’s Bureau of Vital Records will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order.
When Amending the Name and Gender Marker, or Name Only
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following to the Vital Records office:
A certified copy of the court order
A signed cover letter requesting the court order be applied to your birth certificate
The $15 required fee—there may be an additional fee if you request multiple copies
When Amending the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
According to Missouri statute, the Department of Health will issue an amended birth certificate "upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction indicating the sex of an individual born in this state has been changed by surgical procedure and that such individual's name has been changed” ( Mo. Rev. Stat. § 193.215-9) .
Unlike the petition for a name change, there is no official form provided by the Missouri State Courts to request a gender marker change. You may wish to consult an attorney to draft a petition in order to receive a court order to amend your gender marker. Consult The Center Project for more resources on changing your gender marker on a Missouri birth certificate.
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following documents to the Vital Records office:
A certified copy of the court order of name change
A certified copy of the court order of gender marker change
A signed cover letter requesting the court order be applied to the applicable record
The required $15 fee—there may be an additional fee if you request multiple copies
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Missouri , you may mail your requests to the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services. It will take several weeks to process the request.
Mailing address:
Missouri Dept. of Health and Senior Services
P.O. Box 570
Jefferson City, MO 65102
If you are no longer a Missouri resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Missouri, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Missouri Vital Records will accept a certified copy of an Order for Name or Gender Marker Change signed by a court from your current state of residence. (You may need to contact an attorney for assistance obtaining this document in certain states).
If you were not born in Missouri, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For further information or questions about amending records, you can contact the Missouri Bureau of Vital Records.
Phone: 573-751-6387
Email: VitalRecordsInfo@health.mo.gov
Missouri Driver’s License Policy & Procedures
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the Department of Revenue. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A valid form of photo identification
Your social security card
Proof of Missouri residency
A certified copy of a court order of name change OR an amended birth certificate
The license replacement fee (the fee will vary depending on your license type).
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your DMV here .
When Updating your Gender Marker
In 2024, the Missouri Department of Revenue stopped accepting a form to update the gender marker on driver’s licenses. It remains possible to change the gender marker on a driver’s license with a court order or letter from a surgeon. You will need to apply in person at your local DMV.
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Missouri Courts —has compiled self-help instructions for adults and minors seeking name changes in Missouri. You can also find your circuit court here and contact your county clerk with questions or further assistance.
SQSH – works to build the St. Louis queer community's capacity by offering peer support, resource referrals, education, advocacy, storytelling, and healing services.
Co-Working Space: 4220 Duncan Ave, St. Louis, MO 63110
Email: general@thesqsh.org
Peer Support Helpline: +1 (314)-380-7774
Metro Trans Umbrella Group —provides a safe space and loving community to empower trans folks in St. Louis and beyond. Their community center is located at 3133 Oregon Ave., St. Louis, MO 63118 and is open Tuesdays & Thursdays 12:00pm - 6:00pm. They offer virtual name change assistance with Micah Ballard for trans folks in Missouri and Illinois.
Email: info@stlmetrotrans.org
Phone: (314) 349-1402
PROMO —works to confront systematic injustice for the LGBTQ community in Missouri. If you are having difficulties updating your gender marker, you can share your experiences here .
Email: promo@promomissouri.org
Phone: (314) 862-4900
The Center Project —works to provide an affirming space, support, & resources for trans folks living in rural areas in Central Missouri. Their office is located at 805 Fairview Ave, Columbia, MO 65201. They provide resources for those looking to change their name and gender marker in Missouri.
Email: info@thecenterproject.org .
Phone: 573-449-1188
STL Name Change Mutual Aid —provide guidelines and lived experiences from trans folks in Missouri and Illinois who have or are going through the name change process. They also provide free notary services for those in St. Louis County.
Email: stlnamechange@gmail.com
Project Affirmation at Shook, Hardy, & Bacon Law Firm —offers pro bono legal representation in actions for legal name changes and birth certificate gender marker amendments to trans and non-binary folks in the Kansas City area.
Email: affirmation@shb.com
The Transgender Institute —offers counseling and holistic care for transgender patients. The institute also provides referrals and letters for gender affirming care as well as assistance with name changes and gender marker changes.
Email: info@transinstitute.org
Phone: 816-305-0943
Missouri State Legislature Code Citations
Notice of change to be given, when and how— Mo. Ann. Stat. § 527.290
Amendment of certificates and reports— Mo. Rev. Stat. § 193.215-9.
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe