Indiana Code Title 25. Professions and Occupations § 25-1-22-13
Current as of January 01, 2026 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
Sec. 13 . (a) Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d), a physician or other practitioner
may not knowingly provide gender transition procedures to a minor.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c), a physician or other practitioner may not aid
or abet another physician or practitioner in the provision of gender transition procedures
to a minor.
(c) This section does not prohibit a physician or other practitioner from providing any
of the following to a minor:
(1) Services to individuals born with a medically verifiable disorder of sex development,
including an individual with external biological sex characteristics that are irresolvably
ambiguous, including individuals born with forty-six (46) XX chromosomes with virilization,
born with forty-six (46) XY chromosomes with undervirilization, or having both ovarian
and testicular tissue.
(2) Services provided when a physician or practitioner has diagnosed a disorder of sexual
development that the physician or practitioner has determined through genetic or biochemical
testing that the individual does not have normal sex chromosome structure, sex steroid
hormone production, or sex steroid hormone action.
(3) The treatment of any infection, injury, disease, or disorder that has been caused
by or exacerbated by the performance of gender transition procedures.
(4) Any medical or surgical service undertaken because the individual suffers from a
physical disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as certified by
a physician or practitioner, place the individual in imminent danger of death or impairment
of major bodily function unless the medical or surgical service is performed.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Indiana Code Title 25. Professions and Occupations § 25-1-22-13 - last updated January 01, 2026 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/in/title-25-professions-and-occupations/in-code-sect-25-1-22-13/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Indiana Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
When Campaign Donations Become Illegal
A Legal Bodyslam? Federal Judge Approves ESPN’s Motion To Intervene in Civil Suit Against WWE
760,000 ACA Enrollees Were Dropped Over ‘Fraud’ Claims. Here’s What Consumers Need to Know.
SEC Opens Door for Crypto-Style Trading of U.S. Stocks
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat