Michigan Supreme Court
State Court Administrative Office
Michigan Hall of Justice
P.O. Box 30048
Lansing, Michigan 48909
Phone (517) 373-0130
Thomas P. Boyd
State Court Administrator
MEMORANDUM
DATE: March 28, 2025
TO: Family Division Judges
Circuit Court Administrators
Family Division Administrators
FROM: Thomas P. Boyd, State Court Administrator
RE: Public Act 229 of 2024–Statutory Amendments for Name Change Proceeding
This memorandum highlights amendments that 2024 PA 229 makes to the Probate Code of 1939, more
specifically MCL 711.1 and MCL 711.3. The public act was signed by Governor Whitmer on January
17, 2025, and these changes take effect April 2, 2025.
I. Eliminated Components of Name Change Proceedings
A. Presumption
This Act eliminates the presumption that individuals with a criminal record seeking a name
change are doing so with fraudulent intent.
Petitioners with a criminal record or pending charge must include the criminal record or
pending charge in their petition. If a petitioner does not have a criminal record, they must
state that in the petition. The court may use LEIN1 or ICHAT2 to determine whether there is a
criminal record3 and shall bear any cost associated with the court’s use of LEIN or ICHAT.
• ICHAT: If using ICHAT for name change background checks:
o Beginning April 2, 2025, courts should select the “Name Change” option when
selecting the search reason.
o There is no fee associated with the name-based background check.
o If the court does not have an ICHAT account, please email the Michigan State
Police (MSP) at MSP-CRD-ICHATHELP@michigan.gov to request access.
1 LEIN means the law enforcement information network regulated under the C.J.I.S. policy council act, 1974 PA 163, MCL 28.211 to
28.215.
2 ICHAT is the internet criminal history access tool maintained by the department of state police.
3 Neither ICHAT nor LEIN will release any non-public records, nor any out of state Criminal History Record Information (CHRI) via
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); only Michigan Public CHRI will be disseminated.
March 28, 2025
Page 2 of 4
• LEIN: If using LEIN for name change background checks:
o The court must have obtained approval to access LEIN and have an assigned ORI.
o The assigned ORI of the court must be used for conducting the optional criminal
record check through LEIN.
o Courts must use the Criminal History (QH) query, purpose code E, and must
include a purpose code reason of “Name Change,” along with a case number (in
the OCA field) or Remarks.
o Courts cannot access any other type of information (i.e. Warrants, Michigan
Secretary of State, Sex Offender Registry, Personal Protection Orders, etc.)
through LEIN for name change purposes.
o Access, use, and dissemination of information obtained from LEIN must only be
for purposes authorized by law or rule, in accordance with the Michigan Criminal
Justice Information Systems (CJIS) Administrative Rules, and that such access,
use, and dissemination is subject to state and federal audit and training
requirements, and the FBI CJIS Security Policy Michigan Addendum.
o Courts that do not already have access to LEIN and need access for name change
purposes should contact the MiCJIN Service Center at
MiCJINMail@michigan.gov to request an application.
B. Fingerprints
This Act eliminates the fingerprint requirement for individuals seeking a name change who
are 22 years of age or older. Before this amendment, anyone 22 years of age or older was
required to have two sets of fingerprints taken at a local police agency.
II. Statutory Changes
A. Hearings
Unless the petitioner is a minor, this Act allows courts at their discretion to enter a name
change order with or without a hearing.
B. Minors Signature
The amendment allows for a minor 14 years of age or older to sign written consent to a name
change outside of the presence of the court. Prior to this amendment, minors who are 14
years of age or older have been required to sign written consent to a name change in the
presence of the court.
C. Publication
If the court receives a petition that shows good cause to not order publication, the court must
order that no publication of the proceeding take place and that the record of the proceeding
be confidential. Good cause includes, but is not limited to, evidence that the publication or
availability of the record of a name change proceeding could place the petitioner or another
individual in physical danger, at an increased likelihood of physical danger, or at risk of
unlawful discrimination or retaliation.
Petitions filed showing good cause must state the reason or reasons why the petitioner fears
publication or availability of the proceeding, and the court must presume that a petition
shows good cause if any of the following reasons are included in the statement:
March 28, 2025
Page 3 of 4
• The petitioner or the endangered individual is a victim of an assaultive crime, domestic
violence, harassment, human trafficking, or stalking.
• The petitioner or the endangered individual seeks to affirm their gender identity.4
If the court receives a petition that shows good cause, courts must order that no publication of
the proceeding take place and make the record of the proceeding confidential.
III. Definitions
The only term originally defined in section 711.3 was “stalking.” Six additional definitions were
added to this section:
• Dating relationship (4)(a)
• Domestic violence (4)(b)
• Family or household member
(4)(c)
• Gender identity (4)(d)
• Good cause (4)(e)
• Human trafficking (4)(f)
IV. Form Changes
The State Court Administrative Office revised several court forms to reflect these changes.
Please see the linked Explanation of Changes to PC 51, 51b, 51c, and 52 for a summary of the
form revisions and links to the updated forms.
4 “Gender Identity” is defined as follows: an individual’s gender-related self-identity, regardless of whether the self-identity is
associated with the individual’s assigned sex at birth.
March 28, 2025
Page 4 of 4
Appendix A
MCL 711.1 and MCL 711.3 Changes
Category Current Law Amended Law
(April 2, 2025)
Fraudulent
Intent
If petitioner has a criminal
record, there is a presumption
they are seeking a name change
with fraudulent intent.
Presumption eliminated; petitioner must
include the criminal record in the petition
(including a pending charge) or state in the
petition that they do not have a criminal
record. The court may use LEIN or ICHAT to
determine whether there is a criminal record.
Hearings Hearing required. Unless the petitioner is a minor, the court may
enter an order with or without a hearing.
Fingerprints Individuals 22 years or older
must have fingerprints taken.
Fingerprints are no longer required.
Minor
Signatures
14 years of age or older must
sign the consent in the presence
of the court.
14 years of age or older must sign the consent
but is not required to sign in the presence of
the court.
Publication The court may order no
publication of the proceeding
and the record of the proceeding
be confidential for good cause.
The court must order no publication and that
the record of the proceeding be confidential if
the petition shows good cause.
Good Cause Good cause under this section
includes, but is not limited to:
1. Evidence that publication
could place the petitioner or
another individual in
physical danger, such as
being the victim of stalking
or an assaultive crime.
Court presumes good cause if a petition
includes any of the following reasons:
1. The petitioner or the endangered
individual is a victim of an assaultive
crime, domestic violence, harassment,
human trafficking, or stalking.
2. Petitioner or the endangered individual
seeks to affirm their gender identity.
Definitions “Stalking” is defined. Additional definitions included for dating
relationship, domestic violence, family or
household member, gender identity, good
cause, human trafficking, and stalking.