Skip to main content
Search Query
Show Search
Menu
Show Search
Search Query
Donate
Play Live Radio
Next Up:
Available On Air Stations
On Air
Now Playing
WUSF 89.7
On Air
Now Playing
Classical WSMR
All Streams
WUSF&#x27;s Wake Up Call
Our daily newsletter, delivered first thing weekdays, keeps you connected to your community with news, culture, national NPR headlines, and more.
Subscribe
Health News Florida
Supreme Court fuels arguments in Florida transgender case about blocking Medicaid coverage
WUSF |
By
Jim Saunders - News Service of Florida
Published July 14, 2025 at 7:12 PM EDT
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
Mariam Zuhaib
/
AP
The U.S. Supreme Court's facade is covered by a scrim during repairs to address marble deterioration caused by age and weather, which dates back to a chunk of marble falling off in 2005.
The state contends two U.S. Supreme Court decisions should lead to overturning a ruling saying Florida violated federal laws by prohibiting Medicaid coverage for the treatments.
Florida and plaintiffs’ attorneys are battling about whether two new U.S. Supreme Court decisions should clear the way for the state to block Medicaid coverage for transgender people seeking hormone therapy and puberty blockers.
Lawyers for both sides filed briefs Friday at the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, with the state contending that the Supreme Court decisions should lead to overturning a district judge’s ruling that said Florida violated federal laws by prohibiting Medicaid coverage for the treatments.
One of the Supreme Court decisions, in a case known as United States v. Skrmetti, upheld a Tennessee ban on doctors providing hormone therapy and puberty blockers to minors to treat gender dysphoria. The other, in a case known as Medina v. Planned Parenthood South Atlantic, restricted the ability of beneficiaries to file Medicaid lawsuits against states.
In their brief Friday, Florida’s lawyers argued that the Skrmetti decision “makes clear” that Florida’s ban on Medicaid coverage for the treatments “easily passes muster.” The brief disputed that the ban violates equal-protection rights because it involves a medical diagnosis.
ALSO READ : Where Florida's transgender care case stands in wake of Supreme Court's OK of Tennessee ban
“There’s no medical consensus on gender-dysphoria procedures,” the state’s brief said. “Those procedures can cause permanent, negative consequences for patients. The state gets wide berth to take the steps it deems necessary to protect its citizens.”
But attorneys for plaintiffs who challenged the ban argued in a brief that the Skrmetti decision was “fairly limited in its scope and breadth” and that Florida’s Medicaid coverage exclusions “discriminate based on transgender status and therefore sex in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment,” which includes equal protection.
“It is not — and cannot be — the law that transgender people are strangers to our Constitution’s protections against invidious governmental discrimination,” the plaintiffs’ brief said. “Skrmetti does not bless nor give license to such discrimination. To the contrary, the Fourteenth Amendment protects persons from governmental enactments, like the exclusions, that facially discriminate based on transgender status and/or are ‘designed to effect an invidious discrimination against transgender individuals.’”
The lawsuit was filed in 2022 on behalf of two transgender adults and the parents of two transgender minors after the Florida Agency for Health Care Administration adopted a rule that barred the coverage. The lawsuit was later updated to include a 2023 state law that similarly prevented Medicaid reimbursement for the treatments.
ALSO READ : Supreme Court upholds state bans on transgender care for minors
Unlike the law at issue in the Skrmetti case, which dealt only with treatment of minors, the Florida Medicaid restrictions applied to minors and adults.
U.S. District Judge Robert Hinkle ruled that the Florida restrictions violated equal-protection rights, a federal Medicaid law and a federal Affordable Care Act prohibition on sex discrimination. The state appealed to the Atlanta-based appeals court, where the case has remained pending.
After the Supreme Court issued the Skrmetti and Medina decisions last month, the 11th Circuit directed attorneys to file briefs about what effects, if any, the decisions could have on the Florida case.
Florida approved the Medicaid limits as Gov. Ron DeSantis and many other Republican leaders across the country made a priority in recent years of trying to restrict treatments for transgender people with gender dysphoria. The Mayo Clinic website defines gender dysphoria as “a feeling of distress that can happen when a person's gender identity differs from the sex assigned at birth.”
A key dispute in the briefs filed Friday centered on whether the Florida restrictions were discriminatory or were focused on a medical condition. The plaintiffs’ attorneys contended that the state law refers to “sex reassignment prescriptions or procedures,” rather than a medical condition, and is unconstitutionally discriminatory.
“Critically, Skrmetti’s analysis hinges on the (Supreme) Court’s finding that Tennessee’s law classified based on age and medical condition,” the plaintiffs’ brief said. “That is not the case here, where the exclusions irrationally target transgender people of all ages; it prohibits coverage of gender-affirming medical care for Medicaid beneficiaries regardless of age.”
In their brief, the state’s lawyers acknowledged that the case involves adults and minors but said that “doesn’t matter.”
“These experimental procedures raise concerns for minors and adults alike, and the state gets to protect its minor and adult citizens from such procedures,” the state’s brief said.
ALSO READ : Supreme Court upholds South Carolina's ban on Medicaid funds for Planned Parenthood
The other issue in the briefs centered on the Supreme Court’s decision in the Medina case restricting Medicaid beneficiaries from suing states for allegedly violating rights.
Florida’s brief Friday, partially quoting from the Medina decision, said that when a “state purportedly ‘violates’ a Medicaid ‘condition,’ the (Supreme) Court said, the ‘typical remedy is not a private enforcement suit’ … ‘but rather action by the federal government to terminate funds to the state.’”
But the plaintiffs’ attorneys said Florida did not make such arguments earlier in the appeal and can’t do so now.
“Defendants made the strategic decision not to raise enforceability of the Medicaid Act provisions in this case on appeal,” the plaintiff’s attorneys wrote. “As such, the argument has been abandoned without exception.”
Tags
Health News Florida
Transgender Gender-Affirming Care Medicaid U.S. Supreme Court Health News Florida
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
Jim Saunders - News Service of Florida
Jim Saunders is the Executive Editor of The News Service Of Florida.
See stories by Jim Saunders - News Service of Florida
Get the
Health News Florida
Newsletter
Email address
Subscribe
NPR Health
Demand for ambulance helicopters is going up, but it&#x27;s hard to retain staff
President Trump&#x27;s FDA commissioner nom, Dr. Heidi Overton, faces Senators&#x27; questions
How to limit rat numbers? Train humans
RFK Jr.&#x27;s ethics filing reveals book deals worth millions of dollars
Latest On WUSF
Weather
Florida&#x27;s taste of fall arrives, it&#x27;s been overa 5 years since something similar has happened!
Health News Florida
Hillsborough, Pasco and Pinellas counties declare states of emergency to battle dengue fever
Courts / Law
Florida officials announce indictments of 20 people on voting fraud charges
Education
Sarasota school probe provides more details after Uthmeier calls for teacher&#x27;s removal
Special Report
How guns can endanger kids' lives and futures.
Read More
Black Mental Health
We highlight the stories of Black Floridians seeking emotional healing and wellness.
Read More
Subscribe to Wake Up Call
Our daily news update, sent to you Monday-Friday
* indicates required
Email Address *
Special Report
How distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine exposes inequities in Florida’s health care system.
Read More
Related Stories
Appeals court backs Florida&#x27;s teacher pronoun law in challenge by transgender Hillsborough teacher
How the GOP spending bill passed by the Senate would impact Medicaid
Where Florida&#x27;s transgender care case stands in wake of Supreme Court&#x27;s OK of Tennessee ban
Health care for transgender children questioned in 400-page Trump administration report
Editorial Integrity and Code of Ethics
Read More
WUSF Social Media Commenting Policy
Read More
Thanks to you, WUSF is here — delivering fact-based news and stories that reflect our community.⁠ Your support powers everything we do.
Donate Now