Skip Header to Content
GLAD Law Answers
Home » Your Rights » GLAD Law Answers
What is GLAD Law Answers?
GLAD Law Answers is a free and confidential legal information line serving LGBTQ+ people and people with HIV in New England.
Contact us for free and confidential legal information, assistance, and referrals.
We can help with questions like:
How do I secure my legal relationship to my children?
Can I keep my HIV status private?
Am I eligible for Social Security survivor benefits?
Quick links to frequently requested resources:
If you or your LGBTQ+ child has experienced bullying or harassment in school, fill out this form and let us know ( Español ).
Find information for LGBTQ+ people and families under the second Trump administration, including protections for marriages and relationships , families , health care , schools , ID document changes , online safety , and more .
If you are an LGBTQ+ parent in New England concerned about ensuring your relationship to your child is legally protected, please visit Resources for New England Parents .
Read our transgender health care FAQ .
Learn about identity document updates for transgender people .
If you need to update your name or gender marker on your ID documents in New England, please visit our Transgender ID Project guides .
For specific questions, concerns, information, or referrals, please fill out the GLAD Law Answers online intake form below.
You can also email us at Answers@GLADLaw.org or leave a voicemail at 800-455-GLAD.
Please include your name, phone number, or email, and a good time for someone to call you back. We return calls, emails, and online intakes within about 3 working days.
Translation is available.
Not Sure If You Need to Submit a Request?
If your question is already covered below, you may be able to find what you need without waiting for a callback.
Find Answers to Common Legal Questions
Look through our online resources for information about LGBTQ+ and HIV rights across New England and beyond.
Search by Issue or State
Get Help Updating Your ID
Our Transgender ID Project provides free resources and support for transgender people living in New England to change their legal name and gender marker on federal and state documents.
New England states include Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
Learn More
“When my middle school refused to stop the bullying I endured for three years, GLAD Law helped me get them to finally take action to protect LGBTQ+ students like me. GLAD Law Answers was a lifeline.” –Jason
Still Need Help?
If you didn’t find what you were looking for, our team is here for you. Fill out the intake form to get in touch, or reach us by email at answers@gladlaw.org or by phone at 800-455-GLAD.
Your LGBTQ+ and HIV Legal Rights Resource!
English
Español de México
Português
简体中文
香港中文
Français
Tiếng Việt
العربية
Polski
Русский
Deutsch
Kreyòl Ayisyen
English
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings .
Accept
Settings
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognizing you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
To learn more, visit our privacy policy .
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Settings