Skip to main content Home
Our Divisions
Driver and Vehicle Services
License and ID
Common License and ID Card Transactions
Duplicate license
License and ID
Get a duplicate license or ID card
What is the difference between a duplicate license and a renewal?
A duplicate driver’s license or identification (ID) card keeps the same expiration date. A renewal will extend the expiration date.
You will need to get a duplicate license or ID card if your address or your name has changed, or if your license or ID has been lost, stolen or damaged. You may need to renew your license or ID if it is close to the expiration date.
A duplicate costs less than a renewal .
What do you need to bring to get a duplicate license or ID?
To change your name on your license or ID, visit our name change page for instructions. To change your address on your license or ID, visit our address change page for instructions.
To get a new license or ID because yours was lost, stolen or damaged, visit an office that offers duplicates or renewals and tell them you need to replace your license or ID. Your photo on file is used to verify your identity. You may need to have a new photo taken .
Will I need to take a new photo to get a duplicate license or ID?
Enhanced cards require a new photo with most applications, including renewals. A new photo is not required for duplicates with no changes.
REAL ID and standard cards do not normally require a new photo to get a duplicate card, even if you are changing your address.
You will have to get a new photo taken for each application if you have an identity theft indicator on your record or if you are changing your name.
For your own protection, it is recommended that you have your Minnesota driver’s license or ID with you at all times.
What should I bring if my driver’s license or ID card says temporary stay?
To remove the temporary stay date, you will need to provide a primary document and complete a new application.
You will get the full term left on the card if you remove the temp stay date before your card expires.
You must pay a fee if you wait until your card expires or if you need to update the information on your card.
If your card has been expired for more than 5 years, you will have to:
Provide both a primary and secondary document and, if needed, a document showing proof of name change.
Retake the written and road tests.
What should I do if I&#x27;ve been a victim of identity theft?
You can add an identity theft marker on your record. This will make it difficult for another person to use your name when they meet law enforcement.
Print the following form and bring it with you:
Victim of identity theft
You will need to bring the police report if you want to change your license or ID number.
You can pre-apply before going to an office for faster service.
What if my license is canceled, revoked or suspended?
Go to driver compliance