Iowa Civil Rights Removal Act Implementation Guide
SF418 , known as the Iowa Civil Rights Removal Act , was enacted on July 1, 2025. This document breaks down the law section by section, highlighting what we know and what’s still unclear. If you want the big-picture summary, here’s what we know so far:
Iowans will no longer be able to alter the gender marker on their birth certificate.
Gender markers on driver&#8217;s licenses will have to match the marker on the birth certificate.
State-level non-discrimination protections for transgender Iowans in the areas of employment, education, public accommodations, housing, and credit will no longer exist.
Medicaid dollars will no longer be able to be used for surgical care or HRT related to a gender dysphoria diagnosis.
Other provisions, such as restroom access rules, are vague and unclear and will need to be clarified via litigation.
Caveats and Limitations:
This guide has been written by our policy staff and is not intended as a substitute for legal advice. If you need accurate, situation-specific legal advice, please consult a licensed attorney.
This is a fast-moving area of policy, and new administrative rulemaking documents are actively working their way through the process. The guide will incorporate these new rules as they become available.
Many aspects of this law are unknown, and we will note these areas as we break down the individual sections.
Will you be challenging this law in court?
We do not have any licensed attorneys on staff and are not a litigation organization. We do not have the ability to bring such challenges. We likewise cannot speculate on what other organizations will or will not bring before a court. We will update you on any litigation as information becomes available.
The other law that will be implemented on July 1st is a restriction on Medicaid dollars being used for gender affirming care. This discriminatory restriction applies to surgical care and HRT, but does not apply to mental healthcare or counseling.
Section 1
“Sex” is redefined in state law to mean whether someone’s body could, at some point, if not for a defect or accident, produce ova or sperm. This definition is then used to retroactively apply to any statute or rule that has distinctions based on sex, “including but not limited to in prisons or other detention facilities, domestic violence shelters, rape crisis centers, locker rooms, restrooms, and in other contexts where health, safety, or privacy are implicated resulting in separate accommodations[&#8230;]”
So what does this actually mean? Is this a bathroom bill?
This is a section of the law that is extremely unclear. There are no punishments attached to using the restroom that aligns with your gender identity. Conversely, the owner of a business or other establishment is no longer required to allow you to use a facility that aligns with your gender identity…but this leaves the question of how they are going to establish what your sex at birth was in the first place. Any mechanism they would use is likely to be so invasive as to be illegal itself, absent someone self-disclosing their birth sex. Since people who want to discriminate are likely to use appearance alone in their decision-making, you will need to use your own judgment to determine which restroom is the safest in any given context.
Does this mean I cannot access a domestic violence shelter if I’m transgender?
No, that isn’t what it means. Federal rules like the Equal Access Rule supersede state laws on this matter. Shelters are still required to provide equal access to transgender residents in accordance with their gender identity.
That said, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, who is tasked with enforcing this rule, has stated that they have halted enforcement for the time being. If you are discriminated against in a shelter setting, the best place to reach out and report such discrimination at this stage is the Iowa Coalition Against Domestic Violence .
What about jails and prisons?
Again this is unclear because there is so much existing law and policy that conflict with this. Federal rules that implement PREA, the Prison Rape Elimination Act, require that inmates be placed based on their gender identity absent some serious safety or security related concern. We will be monitoring how Iowa facilities are implementing this.
Section 2
This section largely deals with changes to how Iowa Workforce Development handles postings and job openings, and removes the requirement that they say they will not discriminate on the basis of gender identity.
Section 3
This section makes modifications to how and when birth certificates are altered for new births. If the sex of the child cannot be determined at birth, there is a six-month delay in issuance. There is no other exception to this rule: even if an anomaly is discovered after 6 months, the sex designation on a birth certificate can no longer be altered.
Section 4
This section prohibits Iowans from changing the gender marker on their birth certificates. This, in conjunction with Section 1, is also being used by the Iowa Department of Transportation to justify the removal of the option to change gender markers on drivers licenses to anything other than what is on someone’s birth certificate.
So, can I change my gender marker after July 1, 2025?
No, absent some sort of legal challenge.
What if my birth certificate has already been changed? Is this retroactive?
We do not believe it is retroactive. Those whose birth certificates have already been changed will not be reissued. Due to court precedent, Iowa laws have to specify if they are retroactive, and this law makes no such specification.
So, if I have already changed my birth certificate, can I still change my driver’s license in the future?
Likely yes, as the DOT is only going to be looking at the birth certificate moving forward.
What if I was born in a different state?
You will need to follow the laws of the state you were born in to alter your birth certificate. Once your certificate has been reissued with the correct gender marker, you will take this to the DOT and alter your license accordingly. If your state does not allow you to change your birth certificate, there is no longer a parallel process for out-of-state applicants, and you will not be able to alter your Iowa driver’s license either.
Sections 5 & 6
These are additional sections about birth certificates to change the previous code to conform to the new law. Changes all instances of the word “gender” to the word “sex” in the law about birth certificate issuance.
Sections 7 &#8211; 23
These sections strike every instance of the word “gender identity” in the Iowa Civil Rights Act. Iowans were previously protected from discrimination on the basis of their gender identity in the areas of employment, education, public accommodations, housing, and credit practices. This section removes all of these protections.
Does this mean that I can now be fired for being transgender?
This is a complex area, but technically no. The 2020 decision in Bostock v Clayton County determined that under Title VII of the federal civil rights act, “sex” had to include both “sexual orientation” and “gender identity”. As with the HUD rules referenced previously, however, the Department of Justice has indicated that they will not be enforcing these claims. So someone could bring a personal lawsuit against their employer for these discriminatory actions, but it is unlikely that either the EEOC or the DOJ will bring complaints forward on their own.
Can I be denied a loan or a credit card for being transgender?
This is a similar answer to the one above. It is technically against federal law, but the organization that would be tasked with enforcement (the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau) has been targeted for massive funding cuts and DOGE has removed most of its workforce.
Can I be denied an apartment rental for being transgender?
Same as above. HUD is no longer enforcing these claims.
Can I be denied equal educational opportunities for being transgender?
Same as above. The Office of Civil Rights under the Department of Education has stated they will no longer enforce these claims.
Is there anywhere I can report discrimination now?
You can report it to us by shooting us an email at report@oneiowa.org. While we are not able to help you take legal action on the complaint, we want to continue documenting these complaints moving forward. Just having data to demonstrate that it is still happening can be helpful in moving forward with legislation or legal action in the future. Please note that if you do intend to take legal action in the future that we are not licensed attorneys, and therefore anything you tell us may be able to be subpoenaed. We would not recommend reporting your complaint if you intend to file a lawsuit in the future. If you need a recommendation on an LGBTQ friendly local attorney, please email us at info@oneiowa.org. Note that we are not able to assist with legal fees.
Sections 24 & 25
These sections strike requirements for school districts to comply with rules prohibiting discrimination on the basis of gender identity.
NOTE: This does not contain a requirement that school districts affirmatively change their policies. Unless they are specifically cross-referencing this area of code, it is likely that no change is legally required.
Section 26
This section redefines “sex” for the purposes of interscholastic athletics to mean the same as it is defined in Section 1.
Section 27
This section adds a definition for gender identity since the existing definition was removed from the code. Defines it as “an individual&#8217;s subjective identification as male, female, or neither male nor female,” and notes that “Gender identity shall not be considered a synonym or substitute for sex or gender.”
Section 28
Prohibits public school instruction on “gender theory,” which is defined as “[the] concept that an individual may properly be described in terms of an internal sense of gender that is incongruent with the individual&#8217;s sex as either male or female.”
Section 29
Conforms the existing school bathroom ban to the new definition of “sex” in Section 1.
Section 30
Non-severability clause. Legal mumbo-jumbo that just means if one section is deemed unconstitutional, then the other sections don’t necessarily fall with it.