EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 311
WHEREAS, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2A:52-1, a person seeking to
change their name may file an action to do so in Superior Court;
and
WHEREAS, per a July 30, 2021 order that became effective on
September 1, 2021, the New Jersey Supreme Court amended its court
rules to exclude all records in name change actions from public
access, see N.J. Court Rule 1:38-3(f)(10); and
WHEREAS, Rule 4:72-4 of the New Jersey Court Rules requires
a certified copy of a Superior Court name change order to be filed
with the Department of the Treasury; and
WHEREAS, name change orders filed with the Executive Branch
prior to 1948 are publicly archived; and
WHEREAS, name change orders filed since 1948 are maintained
by the Division of Revenue and Enterprise Services in the
Department of the Treasury, and such orders are not currently
treated as confidential; and
WHEREAS, as noted by the New Jersey Supreme Court, the privacy
and safety interests of all individuals who have legally changed
their names are served by maintaining the confidentiality of name
change records; and
WHEREAS, for someone who is transgender, non-binary, or
gender non-conforming, legally changing one’s name can be a crucial
aspect of that person’s affirmation of their gender identity or
gender expression; and
WHEREAS, the Supreme Court explained that its rule amendment
excluding name change records from public access was proposed in
consideration of “the safety concerns and privacy interests of
transgender, non-binary, and gender non-conforming people who seek
2
name changes in affirmation of their gender identity as well as
others who seek name changes through the courts”; and
WHEREAS, it is the policy of the State of New Jersey to take
steps to protect transgender, non-binary, and gender non-
conforming individuals from violence, discrimination, harassment,
and invasions of privacy whenever possible; and
WHEREAS, in its report titled “Addressing Discrimination
Against Transgender New Jerseyans,” the New Jersey Transgender
Equality Task Force, established pursuant to P.L.2018, c.60, noted
that publicizing the name changes of transgender individuals
rarely serves a public benefit; and
WHEREAS, the Open Public Records Act (“OPRA”), N.J.S.A.
47:1A-1 to -13 permits certain government records to be exempted
from public access by Executive Order of the Governor, see N.J.S.A.
47:1A-1, -5, -9; and
WHEREAS, maintaining the confidentiality of name change
records would serve to protect the privacy and safety of
transgender, non-binary, and gender non-conforming New Jerseyans;
and
WHEREAS, it is appropriate to align the procedures of the
Executive Branch with respect to name change records with those of
the Judicial Branch;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, PHILIP D. MURPHY, Governor of the State of
New Jersey, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and by the Statutes of this State, do hereby ORDER
and DIRECT:
1. Within 14 days of the effective date of this Order, all
name change orders filed with the Division of Revenue and
Enterprise Services in the Department of the Treasury after
December 31, 1948 shall be exempt from public access under OPRA.
3
2. Within 14 days of the effective date of this Order, the
Division of Revenue and Enterprise Services in the Department of
the Treasury shall treat all name change orders filed after
December 31, 1948 as confidential, except for when a record of
such order is requested by the person whose name was changed or by
the person’s parent or guardian, if the person is a minor at the
time of the request, or otherwise for good cause shown.
3. This Order shall take effect immediately.
GIVEN, under my hand and seal this
16th day of November,
Two Thousand and Twenty-two,
and of the Independence of
the United States, the Two
Hundred and Forty-Seventh.
[seal] /s/ Philip D. Murphy
Governor
Attest:
/s/ Parimal Garg
Chief Counsel to the Governor