May 2024 www.health.mo.gov/vitalrecords 573-751-6387
Notice of Fees
In the State of Missouri, vital records are not open to the general public. Copies of vital records are provided to specifically defined
individuals or entities. This helps protect identities, prevent fraud, and preserve the integrity of vital records. State law only allows a
certified copy of a vital record to be issued to a person with a direct and tangible interest in the record.
The State Bureau of Vital Records began recording birth and death records on January 1, 1910 for events occurring in Missouri.
Statewide registration of marriage and divorce records began on July 1, 1948. Many Missouri residents can quickly obtain their birth,
death, marriage, and divorce records at the local level. There are some types of vital records only available at the county level, and
other types of records that are only available from the Bureau of Vital Records in Jefferson City. For more information, visit:
www.health.mo.gov/vitalrecords
*Certification/issuance fees are generally valid for one (1) year. Amendment fees are generally valid for two (2) years.
Birth or Fetal Death/Stillbirth
$15.00 - Certificate of Live Birth (5-year search includes one certified copy if record is found)
NO FEE - Correction of birth or fetal death/stillbirth record by affidavit (does not include new certified copy)
$15.00 - Fetal Death Report or Certificate of Birth Resulting in Stillbirth
$15.00 - Processing court-ordered change related to birth/fetal death/stillbirth (does not include new certified copy)
$15.00 - Processing court-ordered unsealing of birth record (does not include copy of unsealed stamped certificate)
$15.00 - Processing Decree of Adoption (does not include new certified copy)
$15.00 - Processing a legitimation (does not include new certified copy)
$15.00 - Processing application to record a birth after twelfth (12th) birthday (does not include new certified copy)
NO FEE - Registration of birth record by standard processes or by court order (does not include new certified copy)
Death
$14.00 - Certificate of Death (5-year search includes one certified copy if record is found)
$11.00 - Additional copies of same death record ordered at same time (each)
NO FEE - Correction of death record by affidavit (does not include new certified copy)
$14.00 - Processing court-ordered correction of death record (does not include new certified copy)
NO FEE - Registration of death record by standard processes or by court order (does not include new certified copy)
Statement of Marriage/Divorce/Single Status
$15.00 - Statement of Marriage or Divorce
$15.00 - Statement of Single Status
Documents Related to Vital Records
Correction affidavits, paternity affidavits, and documents/evidence related to vital records may be requested at the time of purchasing a vital
record. For more information, visit: www.health.mo.gov/vitalrecords
VitalChek
Additional Charge - VitalChek services (toll-free number 877-817-7363)