Skip to content
Sliding Fee
If you do not have insurance, or your insurance does not pay for a service, you may qualify for our Sliding Fee Program. Discounts are based on your household income, family size, and the Federal Poverty Guidelines. If your insurance requires you to pay a deductible, copayment (copay), or coinsurance, those costs are your responsibility and are not reduced by the Sliding Fee Program.
2026 Sliding Fee Rate Card &#8211; English
2026 Sliding Fee Rate Card &#8211; Spanish
If you would like to apply, please fill out the following application:
Submit Securely Online:
Sliding Fee Program Application (English)
Sliding Fee Program Application (Spanish)
Print at Home:
Sliding Fee Program Application (English PDF)
Sliding Fee Program Application (Spanish PDF)
NHSC Site Membership
This facility is a member of the National Health Service Corps (NHSC). As a NHSC site we promise to:
Serve all Patients
Offer Discounted Fees for Patients who Qualify
Not Deny Services Based on a Person’s:
Race
Color
Sex
National Origin
Disability
Religion
Sexual Orientation
Inability to Pay
Accept Insurance, Including:
Medicaid
Medicare
Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)
APPOINTMENTS:
Ada County Clinics: (208) 514-2500
Canyon County Clinics: (208) 514-2529
If you believe you are having a medical emergency, call 911 immediately.
AFTER HOURS CARE
Call any of our Full Circle Health location phone numbers to speak with a Registered Nurse for help in answering your health related questions, even after our clinics have closed. Follow the simple prompts provided to you once you&#8217;re on the call.
PATIENT WELCOME BOOKLET
Click the page below to view a comprehensive booklet to help you navigate our healthcare system. Pages include locations, extended hours, a list of our services, and so much more!
Spanish Patient Welcome Booklet
SIGN UP FOR MYCHART!
With MyChart, you can:
Communicate with your healthcare provider.
Request and cancel appointments.
View and pay your bill.
Update your personal information
Review your after-visit summary, test results, immunization history, and more.
Sign In
Learn More