Skip to content
Programs
Trans
Youth
Senior
Health
Community Connection
Families
Our Gallery
Trans
Youth
Senior
Health
Community Connection
Families
Our Gallery
Trans
Transgender Youth Support Group
Our Center provides trans support groups for various age groups, ranging from junior high and high school ages to adult.
Our Middle School Group meets on Wednesdays from 5:30 to 6:30pm, and our High School Group meets on Thursdays from 4 to5pm.
Check out our calendar to find out when the next group is meeting!
Transparenting
This peer to peer support group is for parents, friends and caregivers of transgender and gender variant youth. Please join us from 5:30-7pm on the third Thursday of the month.
Trans Support Reno (TSR): Adult Peer-to-Peer Support Group meets every Tuesday at 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM (Note: 2nd Tuesdays end at 7:00 PM)
Middle School Trans Support This program offers guided support to all trans, nonbinary, and gender nonconforming youth ages 11-14.
YOUTH
Queer Student Union
The QSU is a collective built by a group of students from seven WCSD high schools. They gather to learn about queer history, build community connections, and bring awareness to the importance of allyship.
The Queer Student Union acts as an additional resource and protective factor within our local community, helping to mitigate exposure to potential risks, including substance use, violence, and trauma.
The group meets on Tuesdays at 5pm.
QSU Middle School: Rise Up Designed specifically for LGBTQ+ youth and allies entering or attending middle school. Through fun activities, creative projects, group discussions, and peer connection, participants will build the skills and confidence needed to navigate the challenges and opportunities of a new school year.
QSU High School: Rise Up Designed for LGBTQ+ youth who want more than just surviving the next school year. This program is about building confidence, finding your people, discovering your voice, and learning how to navigate high school as your authentic self.
Senior
Senior Coffee Time
Join a fun group of smart people who get together weekly to chat, talk, dialog, discuss, have a chin -wag, natter or exchange. Donuts and coffee and fun.
The group meets weekly on Wednesdays at 2pm.
Queer Veteran's Brew Crew
Join us every third Saturday from 10am–12pm for coffee, connection, and conversation. Whether you’ve got sea stories, ground tales, or sky-high adventures—come hang, talk, and share what needs sharing.
Health
HIV and STD Testing
Free HIV and STD testing are available by appointment only. Call 775-328-2470 to schedule an appointment. Appointments are available weekly on Thursdays from 1pm to 5pm.
Recovery Communities
Out and Sober AA Meeting Wednesday nights.
Women Encouraging Women – Alanon meets in Saturday mornings from 10:15am – 12:30pm.
Live and Let Live meets weekly on Thursdays, 7pm-8pm.
Alphabet Soup meets weekly on Tuesdays, 7pm-8pm.
SMART Recovery Group meets weekly on Friday at 4:30pm-5:30pm
Weekly Community Health Alliance (CHA) Substance Use Support Group meets weekly on Tuesdays at 6:00 PM – 7:30 PM
Weekly Community Health Alliance (CHA) Support Group: Rotating Topics meets every Monday at 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM
Community Connection
EmbrACE AROself
This peer to peer support group explores asexuality/aromanticism and provides space for people to explore and talk in a positive and encouraging environment.
EmbrACE AROself is held on the third Thursday of every month, 6:00 PM–8:00 PM.
Mutual Aid Mondays
Weekly virtual meetings focused on collective community support.
Join link available on our Instagram.
On the last Monday of each month, join us for an in-person potluck @OurCenter.
Families
Sip Sisters
Here is It’s the perfect spot to meet, chat, and enjoy a warm cup of coffee with other amazing women in the community. Whether you're looking to make new friends or just enjoy a cozy conversation, Sip Sisters is the place to be! All women-identifying folx are welcome!
Join us every Friday from 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM
Rainbow Hearts Playgroup
Rainbow Hearts Playgroup is a welcoming space for kids to play, connect, and just be themselves, while parents and caregivers build community, share experiences, and support one another on this beautiful journey.
Contact Jessica at homesliceproductions@gmail.com for up-to-date meeting details
Rainbow Rangers
From plant walks to mountain views, beginner strolls to challenging climbs — Rainbow Rangers offers something for everyone. Let’s explore the outdoors together!
The group meets the 2nd and 4th Sunday of the month. Contact the facilitators at nv.rainbowrangers@gmail.com for meeting times, trails, and more information
Board Games with Jules
Get ready for a new group where families can come together to play board games! This group is expected to start late August. Check out our calendar for more information!
Join us every Monday from 4:00 PM – 7:00 PM
Our Gallery
Our Gallery regularly features artwork, such as paintings, photography, and other fine art media, from local artists.
This work is available to view and purchase during Our Center&#8217;s open hours, and each gallery typically has an accompanying opening or closing reception to celebrate the artist and their work. Past artists to display work include Jana Sayson, a group exhibition featuring reflections by queer youth, and Rachel Grey.
Contact Stacey Spain at stacey@ourcenterreno.org if you are interested in hosting an art gallery reception, displaying art, or selling art as donation to Our Center.
Have a Question?
Contact Us