top of page
Welcome to the Oakland LGBTQ+ Community Center
Providing safe, inclusive spaces for wellness, connection, support, and empowerment.
Our Mission
Hours Operation
Welcome!
Our regular hours are Monday&ndash;Friday, 12:00&ndash;6:00 PM (later for select groups). We are open some Saturdays for group activities and medical services, and closed Sundays except for special events.
View More
Calendar
Crisis Hotline
We Listen
You Matter
Our crisis hotline directory provides access to resources and confidential help during times of distress. This directory is available to guide, support, and connect you to care when you need it most.
View More
Support Hotline
Join our Newsletter
Stay Connected!
Join our newsletter to stay informed and connected. Receive the latest updates, important announcements. Stay in the loop on events, programs, and opportunities to get involved with our community.
View More
Subcribe Here!
SERVICES
Youth Services
Trans Support
Clinic
& Wellness Support
Food Pantry
Elder/Senior Services
Housing
Volunteer
Join Us in Making a Difference
Your support makes a meaningful difference in someone's life. Every skill, every contribution, and every moment you give is valued&mdash;there's a place for you here to make an impact.
View More
Volunteer
Donate
Every Contribution
Supports Our Mission
Your support means everything. Help sustain Oakland's first all-ages, inclusive LGBTQ+ 501(c)(3) community service center by donating today. Tax-deductible as allowed by law.
View More
Support Us
Lakeshore
Lavender Lounge
Coming Soon!
The Center is working hard to open Oakland's alcohol-free safe space.
We could really use your donation support.
View More
Donate To This Project
Experience the District
Oakland Gayborhood Walking Tour explores the Lakeshore LGBTQ Cultural District around Lake Merritt, highlighting queer history, community spaces, local businesses, and public art in a relaxed, walkable neighborhood experience.
District Website
News & Highlights
Celebrating our journey as Oakland's first all inclusive LGBTQ+ center. We've proudly provided programs, and resources that uplift our community. From hosting vibrant Pride celebrations and events to launching innovative and impactful initiatives, we continue to create safe, inclusive spaces where everyone is welcome and supported.
OUR VOICES
Our community emphasizes the importance of the center.
Load More
bottom of page