Skip to main content
Court Fees and Fee Waivers
Self-Represented
Self-Represented
Section Menu
See all court fees and learn how to apply for a fee waiver.
What is a fee waiver?
You may be able to file your case without paying the filing fee if you qualify. Complete the Fee Waiver form and submit the required documents to the court to see if you meet the guidelines.
You can apply for a fee waiver in any NJ state court: Supreme Court, Appellate Division, Superior Court and Tax Court.
Court filing and copy fees might be waived for litigants who
Have income at or below 150 percent of the current poverty level (based on the number of people in the household; AND
Have no more than $2,500 in liquid assets such as cash or bank accounts.
When to file an application for a fee waiver
Under Court Rule 1:5-6 , the court clerk cannot file your case unless the required fee is included. In order to keep your case moving forward as quickly as possible, a fee waiver request should be filed with the court at the same time that you file your court case.
You can apply for a fee waiver even if you have a lawyer.
You may still request a fee waiver if your attorney either
works for Legal Services of New Jersey or an associated regional program; OR
works for a public interest or legal services organization, law school clinic or pro bono program that has been certified for fee waiver status by the Supreme Court under Court Rule 1:21-11 .
Applying for a fee waiver in an appeal of a Superior Court case
To apply for a fee waiver in the Appellate Division of Superior Court, you must submit your application in the Superior Court in the county where your case was first filed. If your application is denied in Superior Court, you then have 20 days to apply for a fee waiver in the Appellate Division.
Applying for a fee waiver in an appeal of an agency determination
Fee waivers in appeals of administrative agency decisions should be filed directly with the Appellate Division of Superior Court in Trenton.
If you win more than $2,000 in your court case, you will be required to pay back the filing fee for your case.
The public usually has the right to view fee waiver applications that have been filed with the court.
You may only file an application for a fee waiver for yourself. You may not apply for a fee waiver for anyone else, even if you have a Power of Attorney.
More Information
Court Rule 1:5-6
Directive 03-17 – Fee Waivers Based on Indigence