Skip to Content
Skip to Chat
You are about to Logout
&times;
Are you sure you want to log out of your account? If you do want to logout, please click "Logout".
Cancel
Logout
Search
SEARCH
Welcome to the Office of the Healthcare Advocate
The Office of the Healthcare Advocate (OHA) provides free support to help consumers understand their health benefits, advocates for consumers when their benefits are denied, and represents consumers' healthcare interests with insurance providers, the legislature, and others. Whether you need help understanding your health benefits, appealing a denied claim, or making your voice heard, our team of experts and advocates are on your side.
Watch this 3 minute video to learn about the OHA
Conoce más sobre OHA en este video de 3 minutos
Learn more about claim denials and how to appeal them.
Learn more about claim denial
Learn about the Prior Authorization process, how to submit a successful request and how to appeal if your request is denied.
Learn More About Prior Authorization
Find out what insurance options are available, how to qualify for each and where to enroll for the plan that best fits your needs.
Learn more about health insurance coverage
Learn more about health insurance terminology, frequently asked questions and how you can get the most from your insurance plan.
Learn more about health insurance
Contact us to get help with medical bills and find resources to address your medical debt.
Click here to contact us
If you're having trouble paying your hospital bill, financial assistance is available.
Learn more about hospital financial assistance
Advocates on Your Side
Mr. Baker's* insurance company denied approval for necessary covered surgery. OHA determined the hospital had mistakenly requested authorization for an inpatient procedure when outpatient surgery was appropriate. Intervening with the insurance company, OHA confirmed authorization for the outpatient procedure, saving Mr. Baker over $25,000.
See How We Help
Request OHA assistance
Get help
Have a question or need help?
To get help from OHA, fill out our online form, send an email, or call us. The quickest way to get help is via email.
Submit an online inquiry
Call OHA
Call: 1-866-466-4446 Our phone lines are staffed Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. by knowledgeable advocates ready to assist with your questions and concerns.
Email OHA
Email: Healthcare.Advocate@ct.gov Email is often the quickest way to receive assistance. Include your contact information and a brief description of your issue for the fastest response.
Release form (PDF)
Online Form: Submit Request for Help Complete our online inquiry form and any appropriate authorization forms to initiate the assistance process. An advocate will contact you within 1-2 business days.
Appointment of rep. form (PDF)
If you have Medicare, fill out a Medicare Representative form.
Get help
Wheelchair Repairs
Report a delay or other problem with your wheelchair repairs
Report a delay
Announcing the Office of the Cannabis Ombudsman
CT Medical Cannabis patients! The state has hired a Cannabis Ombudsman to assist you with issues relating to your medical cannabis needs.
News and outreach
Stay informed
Stay informed about healthcare consumer rights with our newsletters, annual reports, advisory board documents, and outreach materials.
News and press
Sign up for and browse all current and past newsletters.
Annual Reports
Find Annual Reports from the last decade up until the present.
OHA Advisory Board
Get Advisory Committee Meeting info.
Outreach
Reach out for an OHA outreach materials.
Subscribe to the OHA newsletter
Get the OHA newsletter delivered directly to your email. Factual. Informative. Shareable. Help OHA help you, your family, and your neighbors.
Subscribe and stay informed
Healthcare Advocate
Hartford, CT 06103
Deaf, DeafBlind, and Hard of Hearing Contact
Becki A. Jacobson
Becki.Jacobson@ct.gov
860-810-0259