Go to Content
Gender-Affirming Care
Planned Parenthood Great Northwest, Hawaiʻi, Alaska, Indiana, Kentucky (PPGNHAIK) offers expanded services for transgender and non-binary patients. These services include gender-affirming hormone care at all our health centers. We also offer care by telehealth.
Book Online
Call Us
Virtual Visits (Telehealth)
PPGNHAIK offers gender-affirming hormone care visits through telehealth. A telehealth visit is a lot like a visit in one of our health centers, but all contact with your provider happens through a video call. You can take a video call using a computer, tablet, or your smartphone. We may ask that you have your blood drawn at a lab or by going to your nearest Planned Parenthood.
Learn More
Review Checklist
How do I complete my blood tests?
Your provider will order regular blood tests to track your progress and health. You can have your blood drawn at Planned Parenthood or at an outside lab. You can let us know which location is most convenient for you. Our staff will contact you for any follow-up care based on your results.
How do I order refills?
Please request refills at least 1-2 weeks in advance. Call us at 800-769-0045 or request a refill through your MyChart patient portal. Going to all of your visits and completing your blood tests as scheduled will help you get refills on time.
You will need several documents to schedule gender-affirming surgery. What you need depends on which surgery you want, where you live, what insurance you have, and what your surgeon requires. Call your surgeon's office to find out what they require.
We provide letters of support and referrals to gender-affirming surgeons. Schedule a visit with us to discuss your goals for surgery and get the documents you need. We can fax these to your preferred surgeon. If you don’t know the surgeon you want, talk to our care navigator to find one who is a good fit.
Once the surgeon gets our referral, they should reach out to you for a consultation. At that visit, you will learn more about surgery and recovery. You will also decide on your surgery date.
Visit Trans Equality
Alaska
Hawai’i
Idaho
Indiana
Kentucky
Washington
National
Self-Injection Videos
How to perform an intramuscular (IM) self-injection.
Click here
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all