Skip to main content
About
Contact
Directions
Disability Assistance
Select Language English Chinese (Simplified) Esperanto French German Italian Japanese Korean Malay Norwegian Portuguese Spanish Turkish Vietnamese
Learn about the GEORGIA MORTGAGE ASSISTANCE program ×
Learn about the INVEST ATLANTA ANTI-DISPLACEMENT TAX RELIEF FUND PROGRAM
Family Law and Senior Services
What kind of Family Law and Senior Legal Services are available at the Justice Resource Center?
Family law-related services are available at the Family Law Section of the Justice Resource Center (JRC). The Family Law section was created to assist visitors who wish to represent themselves in domestic legal matters and/ or educate themselves about domestic issues . The members of the staff working at the Justice Resource Center and within the Family Law Section are not attorneys and therefore are not permitted to offer you legal advice or answer your legal questions. Please consult with an attorney for legal advice and to obtain answers to your legal questions. You can also visit the Schedule an Appointment section of the website, or call 404.612.2789 to schedule a 30-minute consultation session with a lawyer. There may be a nominal fee required.
The Senior Legal Services Program provides Georgians age 60 or older, and their respective caregivers, free legal advice on such matters as health, probate, estate planning, consumer disputes, debt collection, and nursing home resident rights. As it relates to respective caregivers, this service is only available to caregivers who are working on behalf of a senior .
The Justice Resource Center (JRC) uses the services of contract attorneys who, on an appointment basis, provide senior Georgians with a 30-minute consultation and referrals for civil matters. The Senior Legal Services Program is only available to individuals who do not currently have legal counsel. You can visit the Schedule an Appointment section of the website, or call 404.612.4544 to schedule a 30-minute consultation session with a lawyer.
Click the link below to view a recorded information session about the Justice Resource Center Senior Legal Services Program.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
JRC_Training_Senior_Legal_Service_Program_Power_Point_April_2021.pdf
Available Legal Forms and Packets
Family Law
Visitors to the Justice Resource Center’s Family Law section are able to obtain legal forms or information on a variety of family law matters to include paternity establishment, legitimation, custody, visitation, child support, annulment, and divorce. The JRC provides computer systems to complete the child support worksheets.
The Family Law section has legal forms and packets with instructions available to assist with the following family law matters:
Divorce
Name Change
Legitimation
Contempt
Child Support Modification
Visitation
Separation Agreement
Other forms are available to assist with your family law case:
Acknowledgement of Service
Poverty Affidavit
Rule Nisi
Affidavit of Diligent Search
Please visit LEGAL FORMS AND INSTRUCTIONS to access and print family division forms and packets online (there is no charge to access). For assistance with locating your forms please call 404-612-2789.
However, please note that there is a $5.00 fee for most forms and packets obtained from the Family Law Section of the Justice Resource Center to cover reproduction costs. This fee is payable in CASH ONLY and in bills no larger than a twenty dollar bill .
Attorney Consultation Appointments
The Family Law Section of the Justice Resource Center uses the services of contract attorneys who, on an appointment basis, provide 30 minutes of consultation on domestic legal matters for a nominal fee. The service is available only to individuals who do not currently have legal counsel, and advice may not be provided to anyone when it has been determined that there is a legal conflict.
You can visit the Schedule an Appointment section of the website, or call 404.612.2789 to schedule a 30 minute consultation session with a lawyer.
T/schedule-an-appointmenthe Senior Legal Services Program provides attorney consultations on such matters as Social Security, Medicare, home ownership, deeds, property taxes, and probate. This service is only available to Georgians age 60 and older and their caregivers. You can visit the Schedule an Appointment section of the website, or call 404.612.4544 to schedule a consultation session with a lawyer.
Notary and Copy Services
Please visit the Justice Resource Center to have your Family Law documents notarized. The Justice Resource Center offers notarization of family law documents for free. However, notary services are not available for other types of documents . The Business Center is a self-service location for printing and copying. Payment for printing and copying can be made by cash, coin, debit card, or credit card.
Family Law Workshop
Navigating the legal system can be extremely difficult and confusing. Each case is individualized by its own set of facts; however, there are some basic rules that all cases must follow which this workshop will address. No workshop can teach everything a litigant needs to know about representing him/herself in any legal action, but this workshop is designed to answer some of the basic questions about a divorce, contempt action, paternity, legitimation, and modification actions:
What information do I need in order to file?
Are there mandatory forms that I need?
How do I schedule my case for a hearing?
What are the operating procedures of the Court?
In addition, some individuals do not have the desire or ability to hire a lawyer to represent them in a traditional fashion, but they may need legal help with a particular issue or portion of their case. Participants of the workshop will be given a list of attorneys who will offer specific, limited legal services at set rates.
There is no cost for the seminar but participants are asked to register in advance.
For more information call the Justice Resource Center at 404-612-2789.
Free Legal Clinics
Clinic Location:
Justice Center Tower (J1 Building)
7th Floor Suite J1-7001
JRC Conference Room
185 Shirley C. Franklin Blvd, S.W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
JRC Family Law Clinic
The Fulton County Courts Justice Resource Center in partnership with Atlanta Legal Aid Society are pleased to announce the continuation of the in-person Family Law Clinic. The free monthly clinic is designed to address the growing need for legal assistance for the self-represented litigant in family court. The JRC Family Law Clinic will provide legal services to citizens involved in family court matters.
Under the direction of the Atlanta Legal Aid Society, attorneys will provide self-represented litigants with brief legal advice and assist them as time permits with paperwork for such matters as simple divorce, modification of child custody, child support, name change, legitimation, and other family court matters. Copies of legal form packets are available within the Justice Resource Center. Citizens must pay for copies of legal form packets. Legal form packets are free to download on the Justice Resource Center website.
The clinic will be held on the last Friday of every month from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. in the Fulton County Courts Justice Resource Center conference room.
The JRC Family Law Clinic will provide legal assistance to the first fifty (50) citizens who sign up in person between 8:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on the scheduled day of the clinic.
JRC Family Law Clinic 2026 Schedule (Clinic dates are subject to change)
Friday, January 30, 2026
Friday, February 27, 2026
Friday, March 27, 2026
Friday, April 24, 2026
Friday, May 22, 2026
Friday, June 26, 2026
Friday, July 31, 2026
Friday, August 28, 2026
Friday, September 25, 2026
Friday, October 30, 2026
Friday, November 20, 2026
Friday, December 18, 2026
How do I apply for a Temporary Protective Order (TPO)?
If you are 18 years of age or older and you are the victim of family violence, you can file a petition for a Temporary Protective Order. If you are under 18 and you are the victim of violence, you must find someone who is 18 years of age or older to file the petition for you.
A person can apply for a Temporary Protective Order (TPO) at the following location:
Fulton County Superior Court
THE ONE STOP!
Administrative Office Address:
136 Pryor Street, S.W.
8th Floor, Suite C-826
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
Email : Familydivision@fultoncountyga.gov.
Office Number: 404-613-4579
Fax Number: 404-612-5582
External Resources
These external websites can provide additional resources on Family Violence related information.
Georgia Commission on Family Violence
Georgia Commission on Family Violence
Statewide Domestic Violence Hotline - 1.800.334.2836
Statewide Domestic Violence Hotline - 1.800.334.2836
Get Help
Get Help
Partnership Against Domestic Violence (PADV)
Partnership Against Domestic Violence (PADV)
Family Violence Laws
Family Violence Laws
External Resources
These external websites can provide additional resources on Family Violence related information.
Georgia Commission on Family Violence
Click To View Details
Statewide Domestic Violence Hotline - 1.800.334.2836
Click To View Details
Get Help
Click To View Details
Partnership Against Domestic Violence (PADV)
Click To View Details
Family Violence Laws
Click To View Details