Together We Can Build a Healthier Community
Providing quality, inclusive, and compassionate sexual health services to all. Services include HIV and sexually transmitted infections (STI) testing, mental health care, HIV prevention (PrEP), and more.
Make your appointment Now!
Our Services
Discover Our Services
HIV Care - Ryan White Program
Whether you are newly diagnosed, transitioning or returning to HIV care and treatment, our program ensures a smooth, fast transition into medical care with Infectious Disease Specialists, certified providers, and case managers. Referral to services include treatment, mental health, food assistance, transportation assistance, and more. All services are free of charge*.
Learn More
HIV/STI Testing - Prevention Program
Our testing service includes rapid and confirmatory HIV testing, STI (Sexually Transmitted Infections), and Hepatitis C (HCV). NovaSalud provides confidential, HIV, HCV, and STI testing at our office in Falls Church, VA. All testing is accompanied by risk-reduction counseling and education. All testing, counseling and referral services are free of charge.
Learn More
Comprehensive Harm Reduction Program
Comprehensive Harm Reduction works to reduce negative health outcomes for people who engage in substance use. Our program includes overdose treatment, fentanyl testing strip distribution, referral substance use treatment, and more.
Learn More
Our Mission
To improve and strengthen the health and well-being of our diverse community through culturally competent and language appropriate HIV/AIDS services – including HIV/STI testing and prevention education – free of charge for all.
Our Vision
Creating a healthier and happier community for all.
Our Values
Service • Inclusion • Teamwork • Diversity • Community • Empowerment
Learn More
TESTIMONIALS
Hear From Our Community
"Very impressed with service options for those that are uninsured. thank you for this amazing service."
Diego
"Muchas gracias por la atención y el mega servicio que brindan siempre, son un amor en todos los sentidos, Dios les bendiga 🤍🙏."
Sergio
"Thank you to all. Everyone is kind and respectful. Every interaction was calming. I feel lucky to have found NovaSalud."
Veronica
"The entire staff were professional welcoming and knowledgeable. Thank you all for what you do for the community."
Tina
"Thank you for all you do. Exceed my expectations. Pleasant. You are heroes."
Serkan
WE CAN BUILD BETTER COMMUNITIES
Support NovaSalud’s lifesaving services to the community
Donate
703-533-1858