Michelle Baass | Director
California Department of Health Care Services
Managed Care Quality and Monitoring Division
1501 Capitol Avenue, P.O. Box 997413
Sacramento, CA | 95899-7413
MS 4410 | Phone (916) 449-5000 | www.dhcs.ca.gov
State of California
Gavin Newsom, Governor
California Health and Human Services Agency
DATE: September 26, 2025
ALL PLAN LETTER 25-014
TO: ALL MEDI-CAL MANAGED CARE PLANS
SUBJECT: UPDATE TO PROVIDER DIRECTORY REQUIREMENTS
PURPOSE:
This All Plan Letter (APL) provides Medi-Cal managed care plans (MCPs) with guidance
on updated Provider Directory requirements pursuant to the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub.L. No. 117-328, section 5123 (Dec. 29, 2022) 136 Stat.
4459, 5944) (CAA, 2023);1 State Health Official Letter (SHO) 24-003, pages 4-5; and 42
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) section 438.10(h)(1).2
BACKGROUND:
In accordance with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the
Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) is implementing guidance on Provider
Directory requirements for Medi-Cal Fee-for-Service (FFS) Providers and contracted
MCPs pursuant to Division H, Title V, Section 5123 of the CAA, 2023, and SHO Letter
24-003, section Provider Directory Data Requirements, Page 5.
The CAA, 2023 introduced new requirements for Provider Directories under section
5123, titled “REQUIRING ACCURATE, UPDATED, AND SEARCHABLE PROVIDER
DIRECTORIES.” Effective July 1, 2025, these requirements, most of which are already
regulatory requirements for MCPs, build on existing policy by mandating that MCP
Provider Directories be searchable in electronic form and include whether the Provider
offers Covered Services via Telehealth.
Existing Provider Directory requirements are found in the MCP Contract Exhibit A,
Attachment III, 5.1.3.H3 and 42 CFR section 438.10(h).
POLICY:
MCPs must continue to meet existing requirements specified in the MCP Contract
Exhibit A, Attachment III, 5.1.3.H,42 CFR Section 438.10(h), and California Health and
1 The CAA, 2023 is available at: https://www.congress.gov/117/plaws/publ328/PLAW-
117publ328.pdf.
2 SHO Letter 24-003 is available at: https://www.medicaid.gov/federal-policy-
guidance/downloads/sho24003.pdf. The CFR is searchable at: https://www.ecfr.gov/.
3 The boilerplate MCP Contract is available at:
https://www.dhcs.ca.gov/provgovpart/Documents/2024-Managed-Care-Boilerplate-Contract.pdf.
ALL PLAN LETTER 25-014
Page 2
Safety Code section 1367.27.4 MCPs are required to comply with the requirements set
forth in this section. The Provider Directory must include the required information for
each of the following Provider types covered under the MCP Contract:
• Physicians, including Specialists;
• Hospitals;
• Pharmacies; (FFS pharmacies are not required to be included)
• Mental health and Substance Use Disorder Providers; and
• Long Term Supports and Services Providers, as appropriate.
Effective July 1, 2025, in addition to the existing Provider Directory requirements5,
MCPs must comply with the following new Provider Directory requirements:
Each public, online searchable, and printed Provider Directory must include, at a
minimum:
• Provider group affiliation;6
• Whether the Provider is accepting new Children’s Health Insurance Program
(CHIP) patients;7;8
• Which accommodations the Provider’s office or facility has provided for
individuals with physical disabilities, including offices, exam rooms, and
equipment;
• Whether the Provider offers Covered Services via Telehealth; and
• Other relevant information, as required by the Secretary.
Note: In addition to what is identified above, DHCS will continue to review for mandated
4 State law is searchable at: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/.
5 See 42 CFR section 438.10(h) and the MCP Contract Exhibit A, Attachment III, 5.1.3.H.
6 Provider group affiliation refers to the formal association or contractual relationship between an
individual Provider (such as a physician, nurse practitioner, etc.) and a Provider group or
medical group that contracts with an MCP.
7 Optional Targeted Low Income Children, Medi-Cal Access Program, and County Children
Health Initiative Program.
8 The following statement may be added to MCPs’ Provider Directories in lieu of adding an
indicator to each applicable Provider listed in the directory regarding Providers accepting new
CHIP patients: “In California, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) is fully
administered through the Medi-Cal program. All Providers who are contracted with a Medi-Cal
Managed Care Plan (MCP) to serve pediatric Members also serve CHIP-funded children. There
is no separate Network or distinction in service delivery between Medi-Cal and CHIP enrollees;
both are covered under the same benefits, funding structure, and Provider access standards.”
ALL PLAN LETTER 25-014
Page 3
Provider Directory additions with the following effective dates:
• Doulas, effective January 1, 20239.
o MCPs may include Doulas under “Other Providers” or a specific Doula
section. Doula providers typically deliver doula services in a Member’s
home or via Telehealth, or both. In place of the “address(es) at which the
Provider provides services”, the provider directory may state, as
applicable: “No address—provider sees patients in their homes;” or, “No
address—provider sees patients via Telehealth;” or, “No address—
provider sees patients in their homes or via Telehealth.” Due to the mobile
nature of the Doula Services benefit, many Doulas use their home
address as their established place of business/service address. MCPs
should not include Doulas’ home addresses in Member-facing materials,
including Provider Directories, unless the Doula has agreed to share this
information.
• Enhanced Care Management (ECM), effective October 1, 202410
• Community Supports, effective October 1, 202411
• Justice Involved (JI), effective October 1, 202412; and
• Gender Affirming Care, effective March 1, 2025.13
The Provider Directory is the MCP’s public-facing material used to represent their
Network of Providers available for Members.
DHCS makes available to all Members information pertaining to Medi-Cal covered
services that are carved out of the Medi-Cal managed care Contract in compliance with
SHO 24-003. MCPs should include the below links on their Provider directory website
so that Members can locate Medi-Cal enrolled Providers, including Pharmacies and
Behavioral Health providers.
9 See APL 23-024, Doula Services, or any superseding APL. APLs are searchable at:
https://www.dhcs.ca.gov/formsandpubs/Pages/AllPlanLetters.aspx.
10 See APL 23-032, Enhanced Care Management Requirements, or any superseding APL and
the California Advancing and Innovating Medi-Cal (CalAIM) ECM Policy Guide at:
https://www.dhcs.ca.gov/CalAIM/ECM/Documents/ECM-Policy-Guide.pdf.
11 See APL 21-017, Community Supports Requirements, or any superseding APL, the
Community Supports Policy Guide Volume 1 at:
https://www.dhcs.ca.gov/Documents/MCQMD/DHCS-Community-Supports-Policy-Guide.pdf,
and the Community Supports Policy Guide Volume 2 at:
https://www.dhcs.ca.gov/Documents/MCQMD/DHCS-Community-Supports-Policy-Guide-
Volume-2.pdf.
12 See APL 23-030, Medi-Cal Justice-Involved Reentry Initiative-Related State Guidance, or any
superseding APL and the Policy and Operational Guide for Planning and Implementing the
CalAIM JI Initiative, at: https://www.dhcs.ca.gov/provgovpart/pharmacy/Documents/CalAIM-JI-
Policy-and-Operations-Guide-FINAL-October-2023-updated.pdf.
13 See APL 24-017, Transgender, Gender Diverse or Intersex Cultural Competency Training
Program and Provider Directory Requirements, or any superseding APL.
ALL PLAN LETTER 25-014
Page 4
• Medi-Cal Rx Provider Directory: https://medi-calrx.dhcs.ca.gov/home/find-a-
pharmacy/.
• Denti-Cal Provider Directory:
https://dental.dhcs.ca.gov/Members/Medi_Cal_Dental/Find_A_Dentist/DentalPro
viderDirectorySearch?locale=en.
• FFS Provider Directory: https://data.chhs.ca.gov/dataset/profile-of-enrolled-medi-
cal-fee-for-service-ffs-providers.
• Providers that need to complete information for the FFS directories may do so at:
https://www.dhcs.ca.gov/provgovpart/Pages/Provider-Directory-Reqs.aspx.
Individual MCP Provider Directories are not used by DHCS to conduct most Network
adequacy and access to care compliance assessment activities, including but not
limited to the Timely Access Survey and the Annual Network Certification. Please refer
to APL 23-001 for details on submission of the 274 Provider File and related instructions
for meeting Provider Network reporting requirements.
Per the SHO, the new Provider Directory requirements are effective July 1, 2025,
therefore, MCPs’ July 2025 expected Provider Directory deliverable submitted via the
Managed Care Operations Division (MCOD) Contract Oversight SharePoint Submission
Portal must include the new requirements.14 However, monitoring of the new
requirements and any enforcement actions by DHCS will not go into effect until 90 days
after the final release of the APL. Provider Directory submissions must include a
printable Portable Document Format of the directory and a Uniform Resource Locator
link to the online directory. MCP’s must have Provider Directory policies and procedures
(P&Ps) in place reflecting how the MCP is meeting and maintaining Provider Directory
requirements that demonstrate compliance with how the MCP ensures, at a minimum,
(1) compliance with all Provider Directory requirements, and (2) the accuracy of the
Providers contained in the Provider Directory. DHCS may request MCP’s Provider
Directory P&Ps at any time as a method of oversight and compliance.
MCPs are responsible for ensuring that their Subcontractors, Downstream
Subcontractors, and Network Providers comply with all applicable state and federal laws
and regulations, Contract requirements, and other DHCS guidance, including APLs and
Policy Letters.15 These requirements must be communicated by each MCP to all
Subcontractors, Downstream Subcontractors, and Network Providers. DHCS may
impose enforcement actions, including Corrective Action Plans (CAP), as well as
administrative and/or monetary sanctions for non-compliance. MCPs should review their
Network Provider and/or Subcontractor Agreements, including Division of Financial
Responsibility provisions as appropriate, to ensure compliance with this APL. For
additional information regarding administrative and monetary sanctions, see APL 25-
14 The MCOD Oversight SharePoint Submission Portal can be found at:
https://cadhcs.sharepoint.com/sites/MCOD-
MCPSubmissionPortal/SitePages/Contract%20Oversight.aspx.
15 For more information on Subcontractors and Network Providers, including the definition and
applicable requirements, see the MCP Contract.
ALL PLAN LETTER 25-014
Page 5
007: Enforcement Actions: Corrective Action Plans, Administrative and Monetary
Sanctions and any subsequent iterations on this topic. Any failure to meet the
requirements of this APL may result in enforcement actions.
If you have any questions regarding this APL, please contact your MCOD Contract
Manager.
Sincerely,
Bambi Cisneros
Acting Division Chief, Managed Care Quality and Monitoring Division
Assistant Deputy Director, Health Care Delivery Systems