Search
Health Insurance
Choosing health insurance is one of the most important choices you can make to protect you and your family. We know that health insurance can be complicated, confusing and difficult to understand. The North Carolina Department of Insurance can help you with your health insurance questions and concerns. Our staff can help you:
File a written complaint if you are not happy with an action taken by your insurance company
Understand your rights and responsibilities regarding health insurance coverage
File a medical appeal with your insurance company
Request an external review if your claim was denied.
REMEMBER: Watch for scams and understand what you are purchasing
When purchasing health insurance coverage to make sure you are buying from a trusted source.
Get health coverage information from official government websites, like HealthCare.gov , a verified licensed insurance agent/producer, your directly from a licensed insurance company. Check agent license status by calling our office at 855-408-1212 or using the online license search tool.
Make sure you understand what kind of coverage you are being sold and ask for the information in writing.
Stay alert for scams. Be cautious of health insurance ads on social media and other websites offering cash, gifts, or other perks.
Make sure the websites you buy health insurance coverage from are legitimate. The health insurance marketplace website address is Healthcare.gov . Many websites use similar web addresses--but are not the official marketplace. The information you share on other websites could be used without your consent and it may not be provide you the kind of health coverage you think you are purchasing.
Before you give anyone money or your personal information: verify the coverage, agent and insurance company.
Read more about health insurance fraud and what to look out for.
Contact us
If you have questions, the Consumer Services Division of the Department of Insurance is here to help.
Toll-free: 855-408-1212
North Carolina Department of Insurance
3200 Beechleaf Court
Raleigh NC 27604
Request Assistance or File a Complaint
On This Page Jump Links
Off