Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
DISCLAIMER: The Trans in the South Access Project provides information about acquiring medical or attorney referrals; it is not medical or legal advice. Moreover, due to the rapidly changing nature of the law and our reliance on information provided by outside sources, we make no warranty or guarantee.
At the Campaign for Southern Equality, we believe that healthcare is a human right – but right now, healthcare access for transgender people is being attacked on multiple levels.
Nationwide, including all across the South – it is legal and possible for transgender adults to access gender-affirming care. However, anti-transgender organizations and political actors have made no secret of their agenda to restrict – and ultimately, attempt to ban – gender-affirming care for transgender adults.
In 2026, we’re seeing some new barriers to care for transgender adults – including some clinics preemptively stopping the provision of gender-affirming hormone therapy for adults, despite no law requiring them to do so.
In response, the Campaign for Southern Equality has launched a new pilot program, the Trans in the South Access Project. It consists of a newly expanded version of Trans in the South: A Directory of Trans-Affirming Health and Service Providers – a resource to help transgender adults in Southern states identify healthcare and other service providers who are affirming and competent in serving the transgender community.
We are also piloting navigation support services for trans adults in Tennessee and North Carolina, where disruptions to care have been especially pronounced. If you have experienced an interruption to care in TN or NC, please click your state link below and fill out the intake form – and we&#8217;ll connect you with an Access Navigator who can help you understand your options to continue care and information related to care. Financial support is not available through this project, but please view this page for resources related to funding gender-affirming care.
Find Providers and Resources Across the South
In the Trans in the South guide, you&#8217;ll find lists of trans-friendly mental health providers, primary care physicians, HIV care specialists, attorneys, endocrinologists, and more across 13 Southern states (Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, West Virginia). In addition to a virtual, searchable directory, we’ve also compiled resources on topics such as funding medical transition and telehealth.
View the Guide
Get Support Accessing Care for Trans Adults in TN & NC
Adults: Get Support in TN
Adults: Get Support in NC
Report an Interruption in Any State
At the Campaign for Southern Equality, we believe that healthcare is a human right – but right now, healthcare access for transgender people is being attacked on multiple levels. We understand that some transgender adults are experiencing interruptions in their access to care – and that some providers or clinics have started restricting adult care. We’re working to best understand the current care landscape and get a sense of how widespread these interruptions are across the country. Please share your experience – anonymously, if you prefer – with our team and ask your community to do the same.
DISCLAIMER: The Trans in the South Access Project provides information about acquiring medical or attorney referrals; it is not medical or legal advice. Moreover, due to the rapidly changing nature of the law and our reliance on information provided by outside sources, we make no warranty or guarantee.
Stay Informed
Sign up to receive news and updates from CSE.
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address *
Zip Code *
Sign up
Quick Links
Trans in the South
Southern Equality Fund
Take Action
Shop CSE
About
Connect With Us!
Every day that we live with injustice is one day too long.
P.O. Box 364
Asheville , NC 28802
828.242.1559
English