Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
HB648 prohibits best-practice healthcare for transgender youth under the age of 18, including hormone therapy, puberty-delaying medication, and surgery. The law is currently in effect.
Youth can still access mental health care, which is not restricted or banned by this law. Youth and their families may also travel to access care in other states where gender-affirming care has not been restricted.
The Campaign for Southern Equality is working with Louisiana Trans Advocates and The Reproductive Justice Action Collective (ReJAC) to provide resources and information to impacted families. Click here to learn more about the Trans Youth Emergency Project.
Get Support
Partner Organizations
Digital Toolkit to Spread the Word
It is critical that we get the word out to families and young people about resources that are available, including renewable travel grants and support identifying in-state and out-of-state care. Thank you for helping to share information with your networks. Please use these templates to share information with your email lists, social media networks, and in-person community spaces.
View the Toolkit
Travel Grants & Patient Navigation for Impacted Families
The Trans Youth Emergency Project offers custom 1-on-1 conversations with the families of transgender youth impacted by the anti-transgender healthcare law in Louisiana – as well as renewable travel grants of $500. Grants can be made to the parent/caregiver of an impacted youth. To learn more about these grants and to request one, fill out the form below. After filling out this form, a representative from the Trans Youth Emergency Project will reach out to you via email to begin assisting you.
Donate to Support Trans Youth in LA
Your gift to the Trans Youth Emergency Project helps families of transgender youth in states across the country, including LA, navigate cruel bans on gender-affirming care. Every donation directly helps families through this crisis.
Make a Donation
Stay Informed
Sign up to receive news and updates from CSE.
URL
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address *
Zip Code *
Sign up
Quick Links
Trans in the South
Southern Equality Fund
Take Action
Shop CSE
About
Connect With Us!
Every day that we live with injustice is one day too long.
P.O. Box 364
Asheville , NC 28802
828.242.1559
English