Back
Get Help
Housing
Sexual Health
Employment
TransLife Care
Mpox
Back
Mission & Vision
Leadership
Reports
History
Careers
Back
Make a Gift
Guide to Giving
Matching Gifts
Get Involved
Store
Scroll
Request a Service
Chicago House has been supporting individuals and families impacted by HIV since 1985 with housing, health, and employment services.
Need support? Request services with the button below.
Find Help Here
Learn more about housing , HIV testing , pharmacy services , employment , and case management .
Envisioning an HIV-Free Future
Chicago House empowers people living with or vulnerable to HIV/AIDS to lead healthy and dignified lives through housing and compassionate, client-centered support services.
Chicago House is committed to preventing new HIV transmissions and ensuring individuals that are faced with a diagnosis are linked to care. As part of the local and global Getting to Zero effort we provide essential health services to individuals vulnerable to HIV to eliminate the HIV epidemic by the year 2030.
Learn more about our strategic priorities.
Our Programs
Housing
We believe that housing is health. We provide housing and wraparound resources for low-income individuals and families who have experienced chronic homelessness or unstable housing and are living with or vulnerable to HIV.
Learn more
Health
We provide essential health services to individuals vulnerable to HIV. We are committed to preventing new HIV transmissions and ensuring individuals that are faced with a diagnosis are linked to care.
Learn more
Employment
We assist individuals who are LGBTQ+, impacted by HIV, and/or living with a disability in gaining financial independence by identifying barriers to employment and working with individuals to achieve success.
Learn more
TransLife Care
We offer comprehensive and affirming housing, legal, medical, sexual health, and employment support for vulnerable individuals who identify are transgender, non-binary, or gender expansive.
Learn more
Make a Donation
Our work would not be possible without your support.
Become a Chicago House Supporter