Home
Administration
Aeronautics
Business with WYDOT
Construction Projects
Driver License and Records
Economic Stimulus Projects (ARRA - TIGER)
Engineering and Technical Programs
Fuel Tax
Highway Safety
Human Resources
Manuals and Publications
News and Information
Permits
Planning/Projects/Research
Titles, Plates and Registration
Travel
Trucking / Commercial Vehicles
Vehicle Business Regulation
Wyoming Highway Patrol
Search
Sitemap
Navigate Site
Search:
oneWYO
one WYO
You can now use oneWYO to renew or get a duplicate copy of your Wyoming driver license, update your address, obtain a driving record, order a replacement disabled placard, or upload a medical or vision evaluation form. You can also find information on how to reinstate your driving privilege, and much, much more, all without needing to visit a Driver Services office, in many situations.
Set up your oneWYO account today using your login.gov account, and see how you can save a trip to Driver Services.
Accessing the convenience of oneWYO is simple:
Visit the official mvds.onewyo.gov page
Select Sign In, and choose the account type
Enter your Login.gov credentials (If you do not have a Login.gov account, you will be prompted to create one. This secure login ensures the protection of your personal information.)
Connect your Wyoming Driver Services record to your new oneWYO account.
Once your account is set up, you can immediately begin utilizing these time saving services.
Add/Change Information
Home
Driver License and Records
Add/Change Information
Adding or Changing Information
Adding or changing information on your Wyoming driver license/ID card may require that you present documentation supporting the addition or change. It may be necessary that you appear in person at your local exam office.
Address Change:
Wyoming State Statute W.S. 31-7-137 mandates that when a holder of a Wyoming driver's license or identification card changes their mailing address, residence, or their name, they must notify WYDOT Driver Services within 10 days. This notification authorizes Driver Services to update our database with your new information, however, you will need to apply in person if you desire an updated driver license/ID card.
Update your information online using oneWYO , by entering the information here , or by printing and completing the Notice of Change of Address form and email it to renewals@wyo.gov , fax it to (307) 777-3823, or mail to:
WYDOT-Driver Services
5300 Bishop Blvd
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82009-3340
If you wish the new address to show on your license or ID card, you can follow the procedures for renewing a credential. A new license valid for five years, or ID card valid for eight years, will be issued to you. You will be charged the standard renewal fee. The new license or ID card will be mailed to you in approximately four weeks.
Name Changes:
You are required to appear in person at any Wyoming driver exam office, surrender your current Wyoming license or ID card, and present legal proof of the change in name; such as a court order, marriage certificate, divorce decree (that indicates you are taking back your maiden or other name), or other legal verification of a name change signed by a judge.
NOTE: If you have not changed your name with the Social Security Administration, you will need to do so prior to applying for your new credential. Your new name and date of birth must be verified with SSA in order for us to issue you a revised driver's license or identification card. When the verification is run through SSA and there is not a "match", you will be required to present your social security card with the new name on it, along with legal verification of your changed name.
You will be re-photographed, and a your new signature will be captured. You will be charged the standard renewal fee. The new license (valid for five years) or ID card will be mailed to you in approximately 4-6 weeks.
Organ Donor Status Changes:
Appear in person at your local exam station; complete a new application form indicating the change in donor status. You will be issued a new driver license or ID card for the renewal fee; or
Go to the Donor Alliance Web site and change your organ donor status there. This change will not be reflected on your driver license or ID card, however.
Privacy
Contact
Disclaimer
Citizen
Business
Government
Visitor