Bureau of Health Services Financing (Medicaid)
Offices & Administration
Divisions
Bureau of Health Services Financing (Medicaid)
The Bureau of Health Services Financing runs the Medicaid program in Louisiana.
There are regional offices across the state where people can get in-person help with Medicaid applications and questions. There are also many application centers throughout Louisiana.
In 2025, more than 1.8 million people were enrolled in Louisiana Medicaid. Medicaid helps low-income individuals and families get health care coverage.
Medicaid is funded by both the state of Louisiana and the federal government.
People who qualify for Medicaid may receive services such as:
Doctor and hospital visits
Prescription medicines
Lab tests and X-rays
Home health care
Nursing facility care
And more
Select Medicaid from the menu above to learn more about available services.
Mission
Our mission is to improve health and health care for people in Louisiana.
Vision
We work to make the Medicaid program better by:
Making care easier and more satisfying for patients
Improving the overall health of communities
Lowering health care costs when possible
We believe in a future where everyone in Louisiana can get the care they need and live as healthy as possible.
Select your region to find services near you.
View Full Directory
What's Happening in Medicaid
Update your Info
Work Requirements
Close Your Medicaid
EPSDT Age Out
LaHIPP
Quality Improvement
Mobile Access to Health Information
Transforming Maternal Health (TMaH)
Medicaid Leadership
Albert Simien
LDH Undersecretary
Pam Diez
Deputy Undersecretary
Seth J. Gold
Medicaid Director
Camille Conaway
Executive Director Eligibility & Economic Independence
Mitzi Hochheiser
Medicaid Deputy Director - Data and Systems
Tangela Womack
Medicaid Deputy Director - Policy, Waivers and Public Affairs
Brandon Bueche
(Interim) Medicaid Deputy Director - Program Operations and Compliance and Pharmacy
Jackie Cummings
Chief Operating Officer
Vacant
Chief Financial Officer
Vacant
Medicaid Deputy Director - Data Management and Reporting
Medicaid Services
Louisiana's Medicaid program covers many of the same things that private health insurance programs traditionally cover. Medicaid can also cover services to help "fill in the gaps" in Medicare and meet certain long-term care needs.
Learn more
Members & Applicants
Whether you receive Medicaid or are an eligible prospect, find information below about how to get the health care coverage you need.
Update Your Info
Income Eligibility Guidelines
Apply Now
Renew Your Coverage
Health Plan Information
Request a Replacement Card
Medical Providers
Louisiana's medical providers deliver valuable services to the state's Medicaid recipients, and are an integral part of the state's health care delivery system.
For Providers
Useful Managed Care Information
Gainwell Technologies
Informational Bulletins
Contact Us
Contact Medicaid Customer Service
Online
Via email
By phone at 1-888-342-6207
Hours of operation: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m
Apply for Medicaid or Renew Coverage
Contact Your Health Plan
Choose a Health Plan
Medicaid News
Sep 01, 2026
Louisiana Department of Health announces transition for Medicaid Healthy Blue members ahead of contract&apos;s conclusion
Aug 19, 2026
Louisiana Medicaid director selected for national Medicaid leadership institute
Jul 21, 2026
Louisiana Medicaid Pharmacy - Tropical Storm Bertha Preparation
More News
Frequently Asked Questions
Who is eligible for Louisiana Medicaid?
Low-income individuals and families including children, parents, pregnant women, seniors and people with disabilities can be eligible for Louisiana Medicaid. For a list of eligibility criteria, click here .
How do I apply for Louisiana Medicaid?
Louisiana residents can apply by mail, by phone at 1-888-342-6207 , in person at a local Medicaid office or online. For more information, click here .
How often do I need to renew my Medicaid coverage?
Medicaid coverage must be renewed annually. When it's time to renew, existing recipients will receive a notice from the Louisiana Department of Health. It's important to respond promptly to avoid losing coverage. Need to renew now? Click here .
Can I appeal a denied Medicaid application?
Yes. There are several ways to request an appeal on an application. Appeals can be mailed directly to Medicaid or the Division of Administrative Law, Department of Health Section. Appeals can also be requested by calling Medicaid Customer Service at 1-888-342-6207 . For more information, click here .
How do I find a doctor who accepts Medicaid?
Click here .
Surgeon General
Evelyn Griffin, MD
Secretary
Bruce D. Greenstein
Powered by Cicero Government