Skip to main content
Unsupported Browser Detected
The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer.
Supported Browsers
Google Chrome
Safari
Microsoft Edge
Firefox
License or ID name correction
License or ID name correction
How can I correct my name on my driver's license or ID?
Online
Unavailable for this transaction
Unavailable
By mail
Unavailable for this transaction
Unavailable
Self-service station
Unavailable for this transaction
Unavailable
Office visit
Complete your business
in an average of 20 minutes
Schedule an office visit
What do I need to change my name on my driver's license or ID? (Choose tab)
Proof of identity
Proof of name change
CDL name changes
Payment
To correct your name at a Secretary of State office, you will need to provide:
Your current license or ID
Official proof of the change to your legal name from the Social Security Administration
Provide at least one of the following documents showing the name change from your previous legal name to your current name:
Court order
Marriage certificate
Divorce decree issued in the U.S.
NOTE: If you're also applying for a REAL ID credential, and you've changed your name multiple times, you may need multiple documents if the most recent name change document doesn't link your current name to your birth name.
If you are correcting your name on a commercial driver's license (CDL), you will also need to provide at least one document proving citizenship or legal presence in the United States:
Valid, unexpired U.S. passport or passport card
Certified birth certificate with stamp or raised seal issued by a U.S. government unit or U.S. territory government office
Consular Report of Birth Abroad issued by the U.S. State Department (FS-240, DS-1350, or FS-545)
Certificate of Citizenship (N-560 or N-561)
Certificate of Naturalization (N-550, N-570, N-578)
Valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card (I-551)
Documents may need to be verified by the federal Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) System.
Provide payment using a credit or debit card (additional fees apply), cash, or check or money order made payable to the State of Michigan for the license or ID correction fee.
Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
What is the cost to change my name on my driver's license or ID?
Driver's license &ndash; $9
ID &ndash; $10
What if I don't inform the Social Security Administration of my name change before applying for a driver's license or ID?
If you don't inform the Social Security Administration of your name change, the Secretary of State's office can't process your name change. The department verifies all names and Social Security Numbers before issuing a license or ID. If your name and date of birth don't match with what is on file at the Social Security Administration, your application will be denied.
To process a name change with the Social Security Administration, you must provide proof of your identity, legal presence and name change. Additional proof may be requested.
What documented proof of my legal name change is required at a Secretary of State office for a driver's license or ID?
You will need to bring documented proof of your legal name change, such as a court order, marriage license, certified divorce decree, etc.
You may also provide other evidence that you have been using the name for at least six months.
Multiple documents may be needed if your name has changed more than once. Name-change documents must show both the changed name and the previous name.
Divorce decrees may be used if they are certified (copies aren't accepted) and if they show the changed name and the previous name.
What documents can be used as proof of citizenship or proof of legal presence for a driver's license or ID?
If your driving record doesn't indicate you are a U.S. citizen, you will need proof of U.S. citizenship (certified birth certificate, U.S. passport, etc.) or proof of your immigration status. Immigration documents must be verified through the federal government's SAVE application. Verification may take more than one day.
Will my license or ID card be issued at my office visit?
Our staff will take a photo and you will be issued a temporary paper credential while at the office to use until your permanent document arrives. Licenses and IDs are printed at a secure off-site facility and will be mailed to you.
How will my name appear on my Michigan driver’s license or state ID?
Your name will appear on two separate lines. Your first and middle name will appear on the first line, and your last name will appear on the line directly below.
Michigan's system allows up to 36 characters in the full name fields. If your name exceeds this limit, it will be automatically shortened.
Apostrophes cannot be included on a Michigan driver's license or state ID. Hyphens can be used for multiple names and will appear on the card.
Suffixes such as JR, SR, and Roman numerals up to X may be included. These suffixes will appear at the end of the first line after your first and middle name.
Still have questions?
More FAQs
Follow us