Skip to content
Programs & Services
Certificates &#038; Records Adoption File Requests
Auto-Injectable Epinephrine Training
Change or Amend a Birth or Death Certificate
ERAVE
Order Birth Records
Order Death Records
Order Divorce Records
Order Marriage Records
Vital Records Support
Medicaid Provider Appeals
POLST
Putative Father Registry
State Health Alliance for Records Exchange (SHARE)
Submit a New Record for Registration
Programs & Services
ADH is pleased to offer vital records services in every county. Click here to see your Local Public Health Unit .
Order a Birth Record
Q: How much do birth certificates cost?
The cost of a birth record is $12.00 for the first copy and $10.00 for each additional copy of the same record that is ordered at the same time. If you choose to order online through Vital Records , a $5.00 standard processing fee and a $1.85 non-refundable identity verification fee will be charged in addition to the cost of any expedited shipping options you select. If no record is found or no copy is made, state law requires that we keep $12.00 for a search fee. The processing fee for online orders is also non-refundable. However, you will receive a refund of any amount you paid apart from these fees.
Q: How can I obtain a birth certificate?
Eligible individuals ( see the list of eligible individuals ) may order a birth certificate by any of the following methods:
Online: You may order a copy of a birth record online in minutes through Vital Records . Multiple expedited shipping options are available through this service. Pay the service fee, certificate fee, and charges for any expedited shipping options by debit or credit card (Visa, Mastercard, Discover, or American Express). Requests typically take 7-14 business days from the date your order is approved plus additional shipping time.
By Mail: You may order a certified copy of the birth record by mailing in a completed application ( available here or from your local health unit ) a check or money order made out to Arkansas Department of Health (no cash or temporary checks), and a copy or copies of acceptable ID to:
Arkansas Department of Health
Vital Records, Slot 44
4815 West Markham Street
Little Rock, AR 72205
Please allow 10-14 days for processing, in addition to mail delivery time.
Walk-In: You may order a certified copy of the birth record by coming into a Local Health Unit or the Arkansas Department of Health’s vital records. The office is located at 4815 West Markham St. Little Rock, AR 72205, across the street from War Memorial Stadium, and is open Monday through Friday, 8:00am until 5:00pm. The office is closed on state holidays. Most certificate requests can be fulfilled the same day for customers arriving by 4:00 P.M., provided they are eligible to receive the certificate requested and have all the required information, including acceptable ID (see above). However, same day service is not guaranteed for non-routine requests such as certificate corrections, court orders, paternity affidavits, and genealogical requests prior to 1935. Customers who arrive in the office after 4:00 P.M. may pick up their request the following day or may ask that it be mailed. Walk-in payment options are cash, credit or debit cards, or a check or money order made out to Arkansas Department of Health (no temporary checks are permitted).
Telephone: You may order a copy of the birth record via telephone toll-free at (866) 209-9482. Multiple expedited shipping options are available through this service. Payment of service fee, certificate fee, and charges for any expedited shipping options may be made by debit or credit card (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, or American Express).
Q: Who should I contact with additional questions about ordering a birth certificate?
If you have questions on registering, amending, or obtaining copies of vital records, please contact the Arkansas Department of Health Vital Records Office at: [email&#160;protected]
Office hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm, with the exception of state holidays.
If you are having technical difficulties , click here, and fill out the online form and submit .
Q: How can I check on the status of my vital record order?
To obtain the status of an order you have submitted, use the &#8220; Check Order Status &#8221; service. Simply enter your confirmation number to view your status.
Downloads
Birth Certificate Application &#8211; English
Birth Certificate Application &#8211; Spanish
Application to Amend Birth Certificate &#8211; English
Application to Amend Birth Certificate &#8211; Spanish
Birth Certificate Resulting in Stillbirth Application &#8211; English
Birth Certificate Resulting in Stillbirth Application &#8211; Spanish
Eligible Individuals List (for ordering Birth Certificates)
Request for Veteran’s Free Copy of Birth Certificate
Vital Records Authorization Form
Requirements for Acceptable Identification &#8211; English
Requirements for Acceptable Identification &#8211; Spanish
No results found.
No results found.
No results found.