Skip to content
Open Aid Alliance
Radically committed to hope and healing
Open Aid Alliance works with the unique potential of each individual to overcome stigma as they seek greater health.
Hours & Locations
Missoula
715 Ronan St.
Our office is open Noon to 5PM Monday-Thursday. We are closed on Fridays.
If you have questions, please call us at 406-543-4770 or email info@openaidalliance.org
Polson
802 Main St.
Our office is open 10AM to 3PM Monday & Wednesday.
If you have questions, please call 406-273-1888 or 543-4770 . You may also send an email to polsoninfo@openaidalliance.org
We are located in the Lake County Health Department.
How Can We Help?
Testing Appointments
Book your confidential and fast STI, HIV, Hep-c, and Syphilis test here.
Book A Test
Safer Injection Supplies
Syringes and other safer injection supplies can be ordered here and shipped to you for FREE.
Order Supplies
Condoms and Lube
Click here to order FREE condoms and lube.
Order Condoms
Overdose Prevention
Be ready to reverse and overdose and save a life with FREE Narcan.
Save A Life
Housing
If you’re living with HIV/AIDS and need housing, we can help.
Get Housed
Syringe Litter Hotline
Call 406-209-9882 if you found syringes that were not disposed of properly. We’ll clean them up or provide guidance on doing it yourself.
Syringe Hotline
Donations
Your gift ensures that our services remain available to all people.
Donate
Volunteer
Research has shown evidence that volunteering promotes psychological well being.
Learn More
Get In Touch
Do you have a question or comment for us? Use this form to send it to us.
Contact Us
Newsletter
Stay current with what’s happening here at OAA by subscribing to our newsletter.
Subscribe
We asked our participants what one word they would use to describe OAA… these are their answers.
Attention:
We will be participating in an organization-wide staff development and training this week. Please note the change in hours. We look forward to sharing what we learn with you when we return on Thursday.