0
Name Change Mobilization
We want to help as many people as possible legally change their names as a part of our long-term goal of gender self-determination for all, free of government limitation.
Name Change Mobilization Intake Form
After you submit the intake form, you will get a confirmation email. Please allow 40 business days for us to schedule an appointment. When the time comes to process a name change you will receive an email or phone call requesting to set up a time to meet with a TJLP staff member or volunteer to fill out the necessary paperwork. If you would like to be assisted sooner, please attend one of our in-person Name Change Mobilizations posted on our calendar and listed below.
All TJLP staff members and volunteers have signed confidentiality agreements and are dedicated to protecting your privacy. If you have any questions while you wait to be matched with someone for support, please contact namechange@tjlp.org.
Intake Form English
Intake Form Español
Current In-Person Clinic Locations and Dates:
Be sure to check our Programming and Events page for the most up to date information on in-person events!
During in person clinics, TJLP staff and volunteers will meet 1:1 with clients on the spot to support with starting paperwork, gathering necessary documentation, and filing paperwork if the client is ready to do so.
Virtual Name Change Mobilization Clinics:
Scheduled 1:1 with each client by a staff member or a volunteer
Clients will need to fill out an intake form to get on the waiting list for virtual assistance.
During the 1:1 meeting a TJLP Staff or volunteer will meet with the clients to start the paperwork process, answer any questions, and file documents if the client is ready to do so.
What to expect during a NAME CHANGE MOBILIZATION…
TJLP utilizes paid staff and volunteers to conduct in person name change clinics and virtual 1:1 name change support and provides assistance to petitioners to update their name and gender marker on various identity documents (birth certificate, passports, drivers license and ID and other miscellaneous documents).
Additionally, TJLP provides referrals to resources for trans and non-binary individuals to access other legal services, access to gender affirming services and other social services.
We have helped change over 5,000 names in Cook County and throughout Illinois! Read our Name Change Overview to the right to get started.
Name change resources
Eligibility Requirements
You must live in Illinois for 3 months at the time your name change order is signed by the judge. Immigrants, legal permanent residents, and undocumented folks are eligible to change their name so long as they meet the 3 month Illinois residency requirement.
You must file in the County you reside in.
Current Illinois law may create a barrier to people with certain criminal convictions. An attorney will speak with you about your particular criminal record to explain how the law affects your ability to change your name. We are fighting against the current Cook County State’s Attorney Office policies regarding their policies to prevent and delay name changes for people with criminal convictions and pending cases. We have listed everything that you can typically expect if you have a criminal conviction or pending case in the bullet points below (current as of April 2025).
In 2024, a new name change law took effect in Illinois that will allow individuals with felony convictions to file a name change, as long as the sentence is fully completed and the case has been discharged.
For Identity Theft Convictions, and individuals who are required to comply with the Sex Offender Registry, or if you have a pending criminal charge the State’s Attorney can file an objection within 30 days of receiving notice of the filed name change, but according to the statute they need to prove a specific reason for that objection and the judge would need to file in State’s Attorney’s favor for a name change to be denied.
For anyone who is required to comply with the Sex Offender Registry, a judge will make a determination on a case by case basis. In order to be eligible to file a name change if you are required to comply with the registry, you must be changing your name for gender identity related reasons, due to marriage, religious reasons, or because you are a victim/survivor of human trafficking.
The State’s Attorneys Office in Cook County has decided to exercise the discretion allowed in the statute, this is a choice they are making and is NOT required by the statute, to file a motion in every case where someone has a criminal conviction requesting that the individual initiate an update of their criminal history transcript before the judge grants the name change. Unfortunately, most of the judges are granting their motions. This process requires getting fingerprinted at the Chicago Police Department Headquarters or utitlizing a private fingerprint vendor with additional costs that are higher than going to the police station. The Chicago Police Department only provides this service during specific hours. We are working on providing more resources about this. If you need more information about this process, please email namechange@tjlp.org for more information.
Additionally, the State’s Attorneys Office in Cook County has decided to exercise the discretion allowed in the statute, this is a choice they are making and is NOT required by the statute, and they are filing objections to name changes in EVERY SINGLE CASE where there is a pending criminal charge. This does not mean they will be successful in their objection, but if you have a criminal charge pending and you are applying for a name change, you should expect to have the State’s Attorney in Cook County file an objection in your case. They are required to state with specificity the reason for their objection, but typically fail to do so. If this happens to you and you are looking for assistance, please email us at namechange@tjlp.org.
For Cook County name changes, the Court has a policy requiring a government issued Photo ID, Proof of 3 months Residency in Illinois (if you do not have an Illinois ID or Driver’s License), and birth certificate (or passport if you were not born in the United States and do not have access to a birth certificate).
If you are unable to change your name in Illinois, you may be able to change the gender markers on your identification documents !
Documents, Forms, and Filing
You will need:
Name Change Petition and Cook County cover letter if filing in Cook County,
State ID/Driver’s License/Proof of Residence if filing in Cook County,
Birth Certificate/Passport if filing in Cook County.
It costs $388 to change your name in Cook County. In the state of Illinois each county has its own filing fees but all are typically within the $306-$388 range.
You can fill out a fee waiver to waive some or all of this fee. If filing on your own as a pro se petitioner (representing yourself) fee waivers will typically be granted in full if you make under $19,563 a year (2025 125% of the Federal Poverty Line). Be prepared to share your monthly and yearly income when filling out a fee waiver.
Publishing the Name Change
This section of the statute was repealed as of 3/1/25 - Publication for name changes is no longer required in Illinois.
Motion To Impound
You can file a motion to impound your name change, which will make your name change private and not part of the public court record.
Name Change Hearing
Unfortunately, in most counties in Illinois you do have to appear in front of a judge to be granted a legal name change. These name change hearings are currently taking place on Zoom in Cook County and many of the collar counties, and are generally pretty straightforward. They are usually 15 minutes or less and the judge will confirm the information you already provided on the name change petition. Most counties outside of the Chicagoland area are only holding hearings in person with little to no virtual options.
TJLP will reach out before your hearing to prep you for your hearing, and for Cook County residents, we will be present with you at your Zoom hearing.
What happens after a name change is granted? Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered.
Change my Gender Marker!
Newsletter Block
This newsletter signup form needs a storage option. Edit the block and enter a storage location via the Storage tab.
Email Address
Sign Up
We respect your privacy.
Thank you!