State File Number: Date Received:
Form to Correct a Wyoming Vital Record
RECORD TYPE (See Reverse side for additional information regarding certificate correction)
Select Record Type: Birth Death Marriage
INFORMATION CURRENTLY LISTED ON THE CERTIFICATE
Name on Record:
First Middle Last
Date of Event: Place of Event:
City or County
Mother/Parent Full Birth Name (Applicant for Marriage)
First Middle Last/Maiden
Father/Parent Full Birth Name (Spouse for Marriage)
First Middle Last/Maiden
Return Mailing Address:
Post Office Box or Street Address City State Zip
Telephone Number:
( )
USE SECTION BELOW TO S
INFORMATION AS IT APPEARS ON THE RECORD CURRENTLY
Email Address:
HOW CHANGES TO THE RECORD
CORRECT INFORMATION
Signature of Eligible Party Requesting Correction: Signature of 2nd Eligible Party Requesting (if required):
Printed Name: Date Printed Name:
Please see back of this document for instructions, eligibility, and acceptable evidence.
FEES TO CORRECT A CERTIFICATE Fees Quantity
Date
Total
1. Correction from a Delayed or Court Ordered Action $30.00
2. Correction not involving Court Action $20.00
3. Correction made within the first-year on a birth record (W.S. 35-1-424(b)) FREE
ORDERING CERTIFICATES AFTER CORRECTION
4. (a) Certified Copy of a Certificate.
(b) Replacement Certificate following correction. (Previously issued state certified certificate(s) must
be returned).
(c) Death Certificates only, first copy see 4(a) above, each additional copy is $20.00.
$25.00
$15.00
$20.00
Grand Total
Attach a Photocopy of a Valid
Government Issued ID Here.
(Driver’s License, State ID Card, Passport, Tribal ID)
*If signature is located on the back, provide copies of both sides.
WDH-VRS-Correction-Form-2026
Birth Certificates:
1. Only a parent named on the record, legal guardian (if the child is under 18 and with copy of court order proving
guardianship), or the named individual (if 18 or older) may correct the birth certificate.
2. If correcting a birth record within the first year both parents must sign the correction form. If the date, place, time or sex is
being corrected a statement must be obtained from your physician or hospital.
3. If correcting a birth record after the first year, documentary proof must be five or more years old or established within five
years of birth.
Acceptable Evidence used to create an Affidavit of Correction on a birth record
• Hospital Record – A photocopy of the hospital medical record of birth. The person in charge of Medical Records
must certify that it is correct.
• Baptismal, Cradle Roll or other Church Record – A certificate issued at the time of the baptism, confirmation, or
blessing. You must send the original record.
• Physician’s Record – A photocopy of the record of the attending physician at birth may be used. This must be a photocopy
of the actual record established at the time of birth, not a computer printout. The doctor must sign the record certifying
that it is correct.
• School Records – A photocopy of the school record may be used if it shows all required information. An elementary
school enrollment record is preferred. The copy must be certified, signed, and dated by the person in charge of the
official school records.
• Social Security Administration Record – This report is issued by the Social Security Administration and may be used.
Death Certificates
1. Only a Parent, Child, Spouse, Informant, Attorney Representing the Decedent or Estate, any Court Appointed
Individual for the Decedent or the Funeral Home may correct the death certificate.
Acceptable Evidence used to create an Affidavit of Correction on a death certificate
• Certified copy of a Birth Certificate that shows the correct spelling of the name, date of birth, or place of birth.
• If correcting marital status, we will need a certified copy of the Marriage Certificate as well as evidence that shows
no divorce has been filed.
• Social Security Administration Record – This report is issued by the Social Security Administration and may be used.
• Certified letter from the Doctor who signed the death certificate.
Marriage Certificates
1. Only the Applicant or the Spouse may request correction on the certificate or an Attorney representing either party.
Acceptable Evidence used to create an Affidavit of Correction
• Certified copy of a Birth Certificate that shows the correct spelling of the name, date of birth, or place ofbirth.
• Notarized statement from Officiant if correcting the date or place of marriage.
Divorce Certificates
Certificate can only be changed through the original court that filed the Decree of Divorce.
Court Ordered Changes
Any item on a certificate can be changed upon receipt of an original certified copy of a Court Order. The certified copy will be
retained for evidence.
For additional questions regarding correcting a certificate, please contact (307) 777-7591.
WDH-VRS-Correction-Form-2026