Making equal justice for all a reality.
Helping Oklahomans access legal information and representation when they need it most.
I need an attorney
I need legal info
I want to get involved
Our Offices
Legal Aid at work
Our Work With Oklahomans
USDA Loan Discrimination Information
Oklahoma residents who have questions about how the USDA Discrimination Financial Assistance Program one-time payment may affect their benefits may call us at 646-202-1681.
Read More
Help with housing issues
Facing an eviction? Problems with your landlord? We might be able to help!
Read More
Need Health Insurance Help?
Visit myOKplan.org for help keeping SoonerCare, applying for Medicaid or Medicare, or navigating Marketplace health insurance.
Read More
Senior legal help
Get information regarding LASO’s OK-SPLASH program for senior adults and the legal issues they face.
Read More
Facing domestic issues?
Get the legal information you need and apply for assistance with family law issues such as divorce or child support.
Read More
Legal Aid Services of Oklahoma&#8217;s Mission
We believe all Oklahomans deserve equal access to our state&#8217;s justice system and legal information.
Get Help
Get Info
Get Involved
Learn About Our Programs
Legal Information for all Oklahomans
Providing free legal Information to all.
LASO gives Oklahomans access to free legal information on a variety of topics such as Family Law, Taxes, Housing, and Disaster Relief and Recovery. You’ll find free legal information, helpful website links, court forms, and more on our website https://oklaw.org/
Get Legal Info
Family Law
Information and forms regarding issues of divorce, guardianship, child support, and more.
Taxes
Information and forms regarding issues of collection, tax credits, and military and veteran information.
Disaster Relief Recovery
Information and forms regarding issues of insurance claims, FEMA assistance, and COVID-19.
Housing
Assistance with evictions, landlord tenant issues, and other housing disputes.
Get involved with legal aid
Join Our Work Towards Equal Justice for All.
Volunteering with Legal Aid
LASO is always in need of attorneys to assist with cases on a pro bono basis. Volunteer! Joining LASO’s dedicated group of pro bono attorneys is as easy as filling out this online form. Find out what kind of pro bono opportunities LASO has to offer.
Get Involved
Disaster Relief Recovery
Get the disaster legal help you need to recover.
Many Oklahomans don’t realize they have legal issues after a disaster and some cannot afford to address them.
OK Disaster Legal Help
QuestionPro&#8217;s survey software plays a major role in helping us keep in touch with our alumni, volunteers, donors, employees and other affiliates. Surveying them has helped strengthen our relationship.
Manage Consent
To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. No identifying information is collected.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent