Skip to main content
Unsupported Browser Detected
The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer.
Supported Browsers
Google Chrome
Safari
Microsoft Edge
Firefox
Filing a Complaint with DIFS
Filing a Complaint with DIFS
DIFS is Here to Help!
DIFS' Office of Consumer Services is here to help you. We provide consumer information and investigate consumer complaints related to insurance, banks, credit unions, mortgages and other consumer financial products. We work to respond promptly and completely to consumers' insurance and financial questions and complaints, assist consumers in resolving those complaints whenever possible, and help consumers understand their options.
We encourage consumers to first attempt to resolve disputes directly with their insurance and/or financial service entity. If a resolution cannot be reached, our office can help try to resolve your dispute. Our Call Center Specialists are available to help you Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at 877-999-6442.
Online Complaints & Health Care Appeals
Alternatively, if you are unable to file a consumer complaint or health care appeal online, you may obtain a copy of the complaint form and mail, email, or fax it to DIFS.
Email, Fax or Mail:
Below are the types of complaints that can only be filed by email, fax, or mail.
Treating Provider Certification for Experimental/Investigational Denials (FIS 2326)
Medicaid Provider Clean Claim Report (FIS 0278)
Non-Medicaid Provider Clean Claim Report (FIS 0284)
Proof of Claim Against a Mortgage Company Bond (FIS 0033)
Proof of Claim Against Company Bond - Consumer Finance (FIS 2401)
DIFS Complaint Process for Consumers
DIFS Complaint Process for Consumers
When you have a dispute with an insurance or consumer finance entity, DIFS is here to help. This video explains the complaint process and what the Department can do to assist.
Follow us