JDF 432 –Guide to Adult Name Changes R: March 9, 2026 Page 1 of 5
JDF 432
Guide to Adult Name Changes
1. Basic Information
• You must file the Petition in the county where you reside.
• You must be at least 18 years old.
• If you are a prior felon, use the JDF 385 name change instructions instead.
• You must attach a fingerprint-based criminal history check dated within 90
days before filing.
• Some counties require a hearing before the order will issue. Check with the
Court for their process and how to schedule that hearing.
• Unless waived by the Court, you will need to publish a notice of the name
change before the order will issue.
• The law that directs this process is C.R.S. §§ 13-15-101, 102.
Note: To just change your last name after a marriage or civil union, you
don’t need this process. Just file a certified copy of the certificate
with the related agency.
Also in this Guide:
2. Step-by-Step Guide Pg. 2
3. Common Terms Pg. 4
4. Filing Fees Pg. 5
5. List of Forms Pg. 5
6. ADA Information Pg. 5
7. Legal Advisory Pg. 5
JDF 432 –Guide to Adult Name Changes R: March 9, 2026 Page 2 of 5
2. Step-by-Step Guide Terms defined on page 4.
Step 1 – Fingerprints
Schedule an appointment to be fingerprinted at:
www.coloradofingerprinting.com or enroll.identogo.com/workflows/25YH7J
Step 2 – History Check
Order a fingerprint-based criminal history check from the:
Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI); and
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
Keep in Mind:
1) You must start the case within 90-days of the report’s date.
2) You must provide any certified copies of criminal dispositions not
reflected on the reports.
Step 3 – Start the Case
1) Complete the starting paperwork:
JDF 433 – Petition.
Attach: History Checks and any Criminal Dispositions.
Note: See section below to waive publication requirement.
JDF 427 – Public Notice.
JDF 426 – Order for Publication. (Just do the case caption.)
JDF 448 – Final Decree. (Just do the case caption.)
2) File with the County Court in the county where you reside.
3) Pay the filing fee. See Fees Section for details.
u
JDF 432 –Guide to Adult Name Changes R: March 9, 2026 Page 3 of 5
Note: Waiving Publication
In the Petition, you may ask the court to waive Public Notice. If
you are:
• A victim of child or domestic abuse;
• Or changing your name to conform with your gender
identity;
Be sure to note that in the Petition, under question 9. In those
cases, the Court must grant the waiver. C.R.S. § 13-15-102(2), (4).
Step 4 – Hearing (sometimes)
While most courts do not hold a hearing, some may. If so:
1) The Court will provide notice of the hearing date and time.
2) Be sure to arrive early to find the room and get through security.
3) The Judge will review the paperwork, ask any questions they have,
and order (or waive) publication.
Step 5 – Publication
Unless waived by the Court, you must give Public Notice of your proposed
name.
1) You must publish at least three times within 21 days in a newspaper
of record.
2) Provide the paper the court-signed copy of JDF 426 – Order of
Publication.
3) Once completed, the newspaper will provide you documentation of
publication. Or, make copies of each publication for proof.
File the proof of publication into your case.
JDF 432 –Guide to Adult Name Changes R: March 9, 2026 Page 4 of 5
Step 6 – Final Decree
Once you file the proof of publication, or if the Court waived publication:
1) The Court will send you the signed Decree.
2) You may order certified copies for a fee.
3) Send a copy or certified copy to any business or government agency
to reflect your name change on their records.
Examples:
Department of Motor Vehicles for your Driver’s License
County Clerk and Recorder for any property owned.
US Department of State for Passports.
Credit Reporting Bureaus. And so on.
3. Common Terms
Case Caption The boxes at the top of the form. It contains
the court’s address, parties’ names, the filer’s
contact information, and the case number.
Petition Document officially commences the Change
of Name process.
Petitioner The person filing a Petition for Change of
Name.
Public Notice Change of name shall be published at least
three times within 21 days from the date of
the order in a legal newspaper in the county
where this case is filed.
May In legal terms, “may” is defined as “optional”
or “can.”
Shall In legal terms, “shall” is defined as “required.”
JDF 432 –Guide to Adult Name Changes R: March 9, 2026 Page 5 of 5
4. Fees
Filing Fee $98 – County Court (most common choice)
$268 – District Court (same process, more expensive)
Certified Copy $20
To Request a Court Fee Waiver
File Forms:
JDF 205 - Motion to Waive Fees.
JDF 206 - Order. (Just do the case caption.)
Or, if you receive certain public benefits, file:
JDF 209 – Notice of Fee Waiver.
You will also need to pay the related entities for fingerprints, criminal history
checks (CBI/FBI), and to publish the name-change notice (newspaper).
5. All Forms (In numerical order)
JDF 426 – Order for Publication.
JDF 427 – Public Notice.
JDF 433 – Petition.
JDF 448 – Final Decree.
6. ADA Information
For reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities act
contact the local court’s ADA coordinator.
7. Legal Advisory
These are basic instructions for informational purposes only. They do not
constitute legal advice. If you choose to represent yourself, you are bound by
the same rules and process as a lawyer. If you do not understand this
information, please contact a lawyer.