LOOKING FOR ASSISTANCE
Home » Turquoise Care Overview
Turquoise Care Overview
Turquoise Care is the New Mexico Medicaid Managed Care program that began on July 1, 2024. Most Medicaid members are enrolled in managed care, and there are four health plans to choose from. Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) are health plans that provide health care services to Medicaid members.
When you enroll in Medicaid, you may choose your health plan. Each offer Value Added Services in addition to Medicaid covered services. Here is a list of all the Value Added Services .
Read more about each health plan on their websites:
Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico
Molina Healthcare of New Mexico
Presbyterian Health Plan
United Healthcare Community Plan of New Mexico
For more information on applying for Medicaid, please visit our website at YES.NM.GOV or call 1-800-283-4465 .
Eligibility Program Rules
See the MAD NMAC Eligibility Program Rules Manual .
Income Eligibility Guidelines
See the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) Guidelines web page .
Citizenship Requirements
See the citizenship requirements on the Citizenship Requirements web page.
Turquoise Care FAQ &#8211; Medicaid Members
1. What is Turquoise Care?
Turquoise Care is the new name for the New Mexico Medicaid Managed Care program that will begin on July 1, 2024. Two new and two continuing Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) have been selected to serve the Medicaid Managed Care population.
2. Who is eligible for Turquoise Care Medicaid?
Most individuals on Medicaid in New Mexico are in managed care. Native Americans may opt-in to managed care.
For more information on applying for Medicaid, please visit our website at yes.nm.gov or call 1-800-283-4465.
3. How will I find out about the changes?
In April 2024, you will receive a letter in a yellow envelope from the Human Services Department (HSD). It will tell you about the changes to the MCOs and what you need to do to choose your MCO. HSD is currently developing a schedule for upcoming outreach events for members and providers.
4. Can I stay with the MCO I have now?
The MCO you have now will provide services through June 30, 2024. From the Centennial Care MCOs, Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Mexico (BCBSNM) and Presbyterian Health Plan (PHP) will continue to provide services after June 30, 2024. Molina Health Care of New Mexico (MHC) and United Health Care (UHC) will be available as new MCOs providing services starting on July 1, 2024.
5. Do I have to select a different MCO for July 1, 2024?
If you do not select an MCO during the open enrollment period, you will automatically be assigned to an MCO. Current PHP and BCBSNM members who wish to remain with PHP and BCBSNM do not have to actively select an MCO. You will be automatically re-enrolled with PHP or BCBSNM if you do not choose a different MCO.
If you are currently enrolled with Western Sky Community Care and do not select an MCO during open enrollment, you will automatically be enrolled with another Turquoise Care MCO.
6. Will my services change with Turquoise Care?
Covered services that exist today will remain. New covered services such as chiropractic services will be added. Each MCO will also offer Value-Added Services (VAS) that may vary across plans. Please see question 12 for additional information on VAS. It is important to talk with your primary care and specialty care provider(s) to see if they are contracted with the MCO of your choice.
7. How do I find out more information about the Turquoise Care MCOs?
Here are the direct links to their NM Turquoise Care websites:
BCBSNM: www.bcbsnm.com/turquoise-care-welcome/
MHC: www.molinahealthcare.com/members/nm/en-US/pages/home.aspx
PHP: www.phs.org/medicaid
UHC: www.uhc.com/communityplan/new-mexico/plans
8. If I change my MCO, how quickly will I receive my new Medicaid MCO card?
Once the MCO receives their list of members, they will issue new Medicaid cards within 20 calendar days of being notified of a member’s enrollment in their MCO.
9. Will I be assigned a new MCO or am I able to select an MCO?
During the open enrollment period (April 1 through May 31, 2024), you will be able to select an MCO by going to yes.nm.gov or you may call 1-888-997-2583. If you are currently enrolled with BCBSNM or PHP and wish to remain with them, you do not need to select an MCO.
If you are currently enrolled with Western Sky Community Care and do not select an MCO, you will automatically be enrolled with another Turquoise Care MCO if you do not make a plan selection during the open enrollment period.
10. How will I know if my doctor/provider is covered by a health plan?
You may contact your MCO’s Member Services department or your primary care and specialty care provider(s) office to ask if they are contracted with or plan to contract with your selected MCO.
11. What is a Value-Added Service (VAS)?
Each MCO offers a unique set of value-added services beyond what is covered and permitted by Medicaid. The following are examples of some of the VAS:
Culturally Responsive Treatments
Specialized Vision and Specialized Dental
Housing Support
Technology
Transportation/Travel (beyond transportation currently covered for Medicaid such as to medical appointments)
Behavioral Health (beyond services currently covered for Medicaid)
12. Will there be open enrollment sessions for members & do I need to register to attend?
Yes, during the months of April and May, there will be in-person statewide open enrollment events. Here is a list of upcoming events . You do not need to register to attend these events.
13. How will I know if an MCO is contracted with my local hospital?
HSD will be adding this information to the Turquoise Care page. Please keep in mind that United Health Care and Molina Health Care are in the process of negotiating provider/hospital contracts so this list will be updated regularly.
14. Have the yellow envelopes been mailed out?
Yes. Here are the ways you can select a Managed care MCO:
Go to yes.state.nm.us – log into your account to select your MCO or use the chat option and follow prompts to select your MCO.
There are step-by-step instructions on our YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/@nmhca
Call HSD at 1-800-283-4465 and follow the prompts to select an MCO.
Complete the form in the yellow envelope and mail to HSD at: Central ASPEN Scanning Area (CASA) PO Box 830, Bernalillo, NM 87004.
Note: If you are currently enrolled with BCBS or PHP and do not want to change MCOs, you do not need to do anything.
15. Which Medicaid members are NOT required to select an MCO?
Native American and have opted out of managed care and are not in need of Long-Term Care services.
Receiving care in an Intermediate Care Facility for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities (ICF-IID);
Enrolled only in the Qualified Medicare Beneficiary (QMB), Specified Low-Income Medicare Beneficiary (SLIMB), or Qualified Individuals program;
Covered only under the Medicaid Family Planning program;
Enrolled in the Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE); and
Covered pursuant to Emergency Medical Services for Non-Citizens (EMSNC).
16. How do I select an MCO if I am also eligible for Medicare Advantage Plan?
If you are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan, it is recommended that you enroll with the same Medicaid MCO to ensure adequate coordination of care.
17. Will I be automatically enrolled in the Medicaid MCO that provides my Medicare Advantage coverage?
No. You must select a Medicaid MCO and if you do not select an MCO during open enrollment, you will automatically be assigned to one of the four MCOs.
18. Will any procedures or services I am receiving now change if I change my MCO?
Turquoise Care MCOs will:
Provide, at a minimum, a 90- day transition period for members who have an established relationship with a Primary Care Physician
Allow members that are children in state custody (CISC) to continue receiving services for the duration of their treatment or six months, whichever is first
Ensure pregnant women in the third trimester or anticipated to deliver within 30 days of the transition are authorized to receive services from their OB provider and deliver at their chosen delivery site
Honor previously approved authorizations for a minimum of 30 days
19. What if I selected an MCO and found out later that my doctor and hospital are not contracted with the MCO?
Members currently with BCBS, Presbyterian or Western Sky who switch MCOs during open enrollment have 90 days to switch MCOs starting 7/1/24.
20. Where can I find the summary of all of the Value-Added Services for the MCOs?
On the HSD website at: Turquoise-Care_MCOs_Value-Added-Services.pdf
21. If I am on the Medically Fragile, Developmentally Disabled, Mi Via or Supports waivers and my current MCO is Western Sky Community Care, how do I transition from WSCC to another MCO?
You must select a new MCO through any of the following methods:
Go to yes.state.nm.us – log into your account to select your MCO or use the chat option and follow prompts to select your MCO.
There are step-by-step instructions on our YouTube channel: www.youtube.com/@nmhca
Call HSD at 1-800-283-4465 and follow the prompts to select an MCO.
Complete the form in the yellow envelope and mail to HSD at: Central ASPEN Scanning Area (CASA) PO Box 830, Bernalillo, NM 87004.
22. Is acupuncture covered under Turquoise Care?
a. No. Please check with your MCO to see if they cover acupuncture as a Value Added Service.
23. Will the Centennial Care Rewards Program go away?
a. No. The Medicaid Managed Care Rewards program will continue but the name will change to Turquoise Rewards .
24. Will a prior authorization from my current MCO for a specialized, non-covered medication be approved by my new MCO? If yes, for how long?
a. Approved prior authorizations must be honored at a minimum per the schedule below after June 30, 2024:
i. Pharmaceuticals already approved for the first ninety (90) calendar days after June 30, 2024 (formulary or preferred drug list, prior authorizations), including specialty drugs.
ii. New Mexico law also requires that if a prior authorization for medications for cancer or rheumatologic diseases was given once, that drug will be approved for the lifetime of the drug.
25. If I am currently enrolled with Western Sky, will my new MCO cover my upcoming provider visits in July?
a. Western Sky members who have appointments scheduled in July will only be covered if the provider is contracted with your new MCO.
26. Do all of the MCOs cover the same benefits?
a. Yes, all four of the Turquoise Care MCOs cover the same physical health, behavioral health, and long-term services and supports. Each MCO offers different Value Added Services (VAS) in addition to the Medicaid covered &#8212;&#8212;&#8212;-benefits.
Turquoise Care FAQ &#8211; Children in State Custody (CISC)
1. Are newborns who are taken into State Custody by CYFD automatically enrolled in Presbyterian Health Plan?
The newborn will be enrolled into the same MCO as the mother for at least the birth month. The newborn will transition to the designated to Presbyterian Health Plan prospectively when the newborn becomes eligible for Medicaid foster care Category of Eligibility (COE).
2. If a child was enrolled in BCBS prior to being placed in state custody through CYFD, will they be transitioned to PHP? Will they transition back to BCBS after being removed from state custody?
A Non-Native American child will transfer from BCBS to PHP if they are placed in state custody. When they are no longer in state custody and if they are still eligible for Medicaid. The parents/caregiver will receive a notice that allows them up to three months to change their MCO from PHP to another MCO.
3. If a child is taken into state custody through CYFD, will they be required to enroll in Medicaid even if their parents have private health insurance?
Yes, any child that is taken into state custody will be enrolled in Medicaid.
4. How will Turquoise Care impact Medicaid enrollment for Children in State Custody (CISC) through the Children, Youth, & Families Department (CYFD)?
CISC will automatically be enrolled with Presbyterian Health Plan (PHP). This will be the only MCO managing care for non-Native American CISC.
Native American CISC can choose to enroll in any MCO. If Native American CISC members do not opt-in to managed care, services will be provided via the Fee for Service plan. Please see the Native Americans section of this document for additional information.
5. Why is there only one health plan option for children in state custody?
Presbyterian Health Plan was selected as the single health plan for children in state custody so that they can focus on providing health care services that most improve health outcomes and to create a consistent experience for children and their families/caregivers.
The Health Care Authority will be able to monitor Presbyterian through specific performance measures and tracking measures, including but not limited to:
Well child visits,
Developmental screenings within first three years of life,
Use of concurrent antipsychotics in children and adolescents, and
Rate of CISC in out-of-state residential placements.
Native American children in state custody always have the choice to select any Turquoise Care health plan, or to remain in Fee for Service Medicaid.
6. When a child in state custody transitions back to their natural parents, will they continue to be Medicaid eligible?
No, the CISC Medicaid Category of Eligibility will end, and the parent(s) may apply for Medicaid for the family and/or child/adolescent. If the family is already enrolled in Medicaid, they must submit an application to add the child/adolescent to the household.
7. When a child in state custody is adopted, will they continue to be eligible for Medicaid?
The adoptive parents can apply for Medicaid for the family and/or child/adolescent. Some children/adolescents may be eligible for an adoption category of eligibility up to age 18.
8. When a child in state custody turns 18 and transitions out of foster care, will they continue to be eligible for Medicaid?
Medicaid covers former foster care individuals from age 18 up to age 26. Upon turning age 18, an individual who transitions out of foster care may choose any Turquoise Care health plan.
Turquoise Care FAQs &#8211; Native Americans
1. Are Native Americans required to enroll in Turquoise Care?
All Native Americans have the choice of enrolling in Turquoise Care (managed care) or Fee-For-Service Medicaid. Native Americans who receive long-term care services (Community Benefits) such as personal care, and long-term Nursing Facility care are required to be in Turquoise Care.
2. How are services different between Fee for Service Medicaid and Turquoise Care?
Under Fee for Service Medicaid, you receive the basic Medicaid benefits package. Under Turquoise Care, you will receive additional services such as expanded care coordination, community benefits, and the value-added benefits that each MCO offers its members.
3. Will I have access to Value Added Services if I opt out of Managed Care?
No. You must enroll in Turquoise Care and select an MCO to access value-added services.
4. If I choose to opt-in to Turquoise Care, can I still see my doctors at Indian Health Service (IHS) or my clinic?
Yes. You can continue to see your doctors at Indian Health Services and still be enrolled in Turquoise Care. The MCO would pay your doctors, lab, pharmacy, etc.
5. Will there be co-pays for Native Americans in Turquoise Care if they see a doctor outside of IHS?
No. The New Mexico Medicaid program does not require any co-pays.
6. What if I choose to be in Turquoise Care but later, I decide that I don’t like it and want to be in Fee for Service Medicaid?
Native Americans can choose to opt-out of Turquoise Care at any time by contacting the Customer Service Center at 1-800-283-4465.
7. Will there be people in Turquoise Care who understand my culture, language, and traditions who I can talk to?
Yes. Each MCO is required to have people who are trained on Native American culture and traditions who can talk to you about your specific concerns. Whenever possible, the MCOs will have people who speak your language.
Turquoise Care FAQs &#8211; Providers
1. What is the start date for the newly selected MCOs?
July 1, 2024.
2. Will I (provider) need to have a contract in place with an MCO by July 1, 2024, to have claims paid beginning on July 1, 2024?
Yes. The MCOs will work diligently with you prior to July 1, 2024, to see that you become credentialed and have a contract in place.
3. Do providers need to re-contract with current MCOs (BCBSNM and PHP)?
MCOs must ensure that contracts with providers reflect new Turquoise Care requirements and that all federal and state requirements are updated. This can be done through contract amendments or through new contracts. If credentialing is current, the standard re-credentialing cycle applies for BCBSNM and PHP.
4. When will the MCOs’ websites and payment systems for Turquoise Care be launched?
July 1, 2024.
5. How will prior/service authorizations be transitioned from one health plan to another?
HSD requires the MCOs to share authorizations and other information for members who are transitioning from one MCO to another to ensure a smooth transition.
6. Will the current MCOs maintain the 90-day timely filing requirement after June 30, 2024, for claims submission?
Yes.
7. When will the MCOs deliver member lists to providers?
The MCOs will not deliver member lists to providers. The provider must verify Medicaid eligibility for each member. Each member’s Medicaid card will list their MCO.
8. How are members being transitioned from Western Sky to other MCOs?
Members will participate in open enrollment during the period of April through May 2024. Once the Western Sky members have selected or been automatically assigned to an MCO, the member list will be shared with the new MCO prior to July 1, 2024. The newly assigned MCOs will issue a new member ID card within 30 calendar days of enrollment.
9. Will providers be able to work with Western Sky after July 1, 2024, to resolve billing and other pending issues?
Yes.
10. If a member wants to switch MCOs, who do we refer them to?
Please refer them to the HSD customer portal at yes.nm.gov or the HSD customer service call center at 1-800-283-4465.
11. For members switching from one MCO to another, will previous prior authorizations be honored?
Most prior authorizations will be honored. For example, MCOs will also be required to honor pharmacy, durable medical equipment and EPSDT visits for 90 calendar days after June 30, 2024.
Partners and Community Engagement Resources
A letter from the Medicaid Director on the Medicaid Transition to Turquoise Care
Turquoise Care Roadshow Webinar &#8211; YouTube
Turquoise Care Medicaid Presentation Slideshow
MCO Contracted Hospital Status (updated 04/30/24)
Community Partner Talking Points
Community Partner Talking Points &#8211; Spanish
Community Partners Newsletter
Community_Partners_Newsletter_Spanish
Introducing Turquoise Care Poster
Introducing Turquoise Care Poster &#8211; Spanish
Introducing Turquoise Care — Social media graphics and copy
Manage Cookie Consent
We use cookies to collect site usage statistics and provide helpful (but not necessary) site functionality. Your may may permit or deny cookies on our Cookie Policy page.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent