Non-driver Identification Card
New Jersey residents 14 years of age and older may apply for a non-driver photo identification (ID). The non-driver ID is issued solely for the purpose of providing identification and is not a license to drive.
If customers have driver's licenses from another state they are not eligible for a non-driver ID card.
Customers that are suspended can downgrade to non-driver ID Card until their suspension is resolved. Customers can schedule an appointment and complete and bring a Non-driver ID Application (Form BA-208).
This non-driver identification card must be obtained by scheduling an appointment at any Licensing Center.
The fee for renewal of the non-driver ID card is $24, the fee for a duplicate or lost ID card is $11.
Renew your non-driver ID online
Obtaining a non-driver identification card
All initial non-driver identification cards must be obtained in-person by scheduling an appointment and any Licensing Center.
Complete the Application for Permit/License/Non-Driver ID (Form BA-208).
Pass the 6 Points of ID requirements.
Pay the $24 fee. For your convenience, the MVC accepts American Express® card, MasterCard®, Visa® card, Discover card®, checks, money orders and cash.
Your new non-driver ID will be mailed to you.
Obtaining a non-driver identification card (persons with a disability)
Any New Jersey resident 14 years of age and older with a disability can apply for a non-driver ID, issued solely for the purpose of providing identification. It is not a license to drive and cannot be used to park in a person(s)
with a disability parking space. There is no renewal fee for this non-driver ID card. For more information on Person(s) with a disability parking, visit: Wheelchair symbol Plates and Placards .
Follow the steps noted above to obtain a non-driver ID card. In addition, have a physician complete the Physician Certification for Blind or Disabled Person, Non-Driver ID Application .
An initial $6 fee will apply. For your convenience, the MVC accepts American Express® card, MasterCard®, Visa® card, Discover card®, checks, money orders and cash.
We are required to capture a customer's full face when taking a picture for a driver license or non-driver ID card; therefore we need to be able to see from the top of your forehead to the bottom of your chin. If you have a medical or religious need to wear a head covering in your photo, please
advise the MVC staff at the agency camera station.
Related Links
6 Point ID
Wheelchair Symbol Plates and Persons With a Disability
Placards
Insulin Dependent Diabetic Designation
Autism Spectrum Disorder Designation