Michelle Baass | Director
Integrated Systems of Care Division
1501 Capitol Avenue | MS 4502
P.O. Box 997437 Sacramento, CA 95899-7437
Phone (916) 449-5000 | www.dhcs.ca.gov
State of California
Gavin Newsom, Governor
California Health and Human Services Agency
September 9, 2024 Policy Letter 24-03
To: Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) Organizations
Subject: Gender Affirming Care
Purpose
The purpose of this PACE Policy Letter (PL) is to provide guidance to PACE
Organizations (PO) on the requirement for all PO, contractor, and downstream
subcontractor staff members in direct contact with PACE participants to complete
evidence-based cultural competency training for the purpose of providing trans-inclusive
health care to individuals who identify as transgender, gender diverse, or intersex (TGI).
This PL will define trans-inclusive health care, outline the required components of
training, the sanctions for non-compliance and reporting guidelines.
Background
Senate Bill (SB) 923 was signed into law on September 29, 2022, requiring POs and
delegated entities to require its staff to complete evidence-based cultural competency
training for the purpose of providing trans-inclusive health care for individuals who
identify as TGI. Trans-inclusive health care is defined in Welfare and Institutions (WIC)
section 14197.09(d)(5)1 as comprehensive health care that is consistent with the
standards of care for individuals who identify as TGI, honors an individual’s personal
bodily autonomy, does not make assumptions about an individual’s gender, accepts
gender fluidity and nontraditional gender presentation, and treats everyone with
compassion, understanding, and respect.
Additionally, SB 923 requires POs to include information, within or accessible from the
PO’s provider directory, identifying which providers have affirmed they offer and have
provided gender-affirming services as defined in WIC 14197.09(c). Furthermore, SB
923 requires the Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) to track, monitor and
report complaints and impose sanctions for violation of the law.
SB 923 also established the TGI Working Group tasked with developing a quality
standard for patient experience to measure cultural competency related to TGI
communities and recommend a training curriculum for all POs, contractors, and
1 California Code, WIC 14197.09.
PACE Policy Letter 24-03
September 9, 2024
Page 2 of 5
downstream subcontractor staff in direct contact with PACE participants. The TGI
Working Group consisted of representatives from state departments, TGI-serving
organizations, individuals who identify as TGI, and health care providers. The Working
Group developed guidance related to quality standards and training curriculum in line
with the objectives set forth in SB 923.
Policy
TGI Evidence-Based Cultural Competency Training
POs must require all PO contractors and downstream subcontractor’s staff who are in
direct contact with participants to complete annually or more often, if needed, evidence-
based cultural competency training for the purposes of providing TGI health care for
individuals who identify as TGI. Direct contact with participants includes staff that have
oral and/or written contact with participants in the delivery of care or participant
services. POs are required to work with TGI-serving organizations to select or develop
training that meets the standards set forth in the TGI Working Group recommendations2
and as indicated in Attachment III (Guidelines for Evidence-based Cultural Competency
Training) of this PL. POs must submit proposed curriculum, the items indicated in
Attachment II, and the completed training curriculum checklist in Attachment II to DHCS
for review and approval 90 days after the release of this PL. In addition to submission of
proposed curriculum to DHCS, POs must complete the following:
• POs must provide a signed and dated attestation on PO letterhead that all
required PO, contractor, and downstream subcontractor staff have completed the
initial training by March 1, 2025. If the PO, contractor, and downstream
subcontractor staff members who are in direct contact with participants have not
completed the training by March 1, 2025, the PO must provide an explanation for
the delay and a timeline for completion of the training.
• POs must provide a signed and dated attestation on PO letterhead that newly
hired PO, contractor, and downstream subcontractor staff members in direct
contact with participants will complete the training within 90 days of being hired
or within 90 days of contract execution.
• POs must have policies and procedures (P&Ps) in place to track complaints and
grievances filed against PO, contractor and downstream subcontractor staff. If a
complaint or grievance is filed against a PO, contractor, or downstream
subcontractor staff member for failing to provide TGI health care, and the
complaint or grievance is substantiated, the PO, contractor, or downstream
subcontractor staff member must complete a refresher course within 30 days of
the complaint being substantiated. Requirements for complaint and grievance
monitoring and refresher course reporting are outlined in the
Grievance/Complaint Monitoring and Reporting Requirements section of this PL.
POs should note that any pattern of repeated substantiated complaints against a
2 2024 Transgender, Gender Diverse, or Intersex Working Group Recommendations Report
PACE Policy Letter 24-03
September 9, 2024
Page 3 of 5
staff member or multiple complaints against multiple staff members gives rise to
a presumption the PO is not providing adequate TGI health care. Such practices
suggest the training is either ineffective or that the working culture is hostile
towards TGI health care. This will require further remediation including further
staff training and/or re-evaluation of the training curriculum.
• POs must provide a signed and dated attestation on PO letterhead that they will
maintain related P&Ps requiring PO, contractor, and downstream subcontractor
staff to complete initial training, and a refresher course when a grievance is made
against the staff for failure to provide TGI health care, and a decision was made
in favor of the participant.
POs must submit all signed attestations via email to PACE@dhcs.ca.gov.
Finally, DHCS encourages training be provided to PO staff that do not fall under SB 923
requirements.
Provider Directory Requirements
No later than March 1, 2025, POs are required, to include information accessible from
the PO’s Provider Directory, identifying which PO contracted providers have voluntarily
affirmed they offer and have provided gender-affirming services. POs are required to
maintain up-to-date information on which contracted providers have voluntarily affirmed
they offer and provide gender-affirming services. POs are required to make this
information accessible through the PO’s call center.
The PO must ensure their Provider Directory is compliant at a minimum but is not
limited to the following:
• Up-to-date directory of PO and contracted providers who have attested that they
offer and have provided gender-affirming services.
• A system in place to receive updates from contracted providers attesting they
have provided gender-affirming services and are requesting to be added to the
directory. This also includes receiving updates from contracted providers
requesting to be removed from directory due to them not providing gender-
affirming services. PO provider directory must be updated within 30 days from
notification of such changes.
• POs must verify information received from providers indicating the provider offers
gender-affirming services.
• POs must investigate reports or complaints of providers that have affirmed they
provide gender-affirming services who have failed to provide TGI health care, or
do not offer gender-affirming services.
• POs must ensure its provider directory is updated within 30 days following an
investigation and finding that information regarding which providers offer gender-
affirming services is inaccurate or misleading.
PACE Policy Letter 24-03
September 9, 2024
Page 4 of 5
Grievance/Complaint Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
POs must ensure that participants are made aware of their rights to submit grievances
to the PO and DHCS for failure to provide trans-inclusive health care as defined in WIC
sections 14197.09(d)(5).
If a complaint has been made or grievance has been filed and substantiated against a
PO, contractor, or downstream subcontractor staff member for failing to provide TGI
health care, the staff member will be required to complete a refresher course. Training
may be required on a more frequent basis if deemed necessary.
If a complaint or grievance is received, POs are required to submit a
grievance/complaint report to DHCS on a quarterly basis. The report must contain a
summary of all complaints and grievances received, this includes both substantiated
and unsubstantiated complaints, related to TGI health care. The report must be
submitted through a secure encrypted email sent to PACECompliance@dhcs.ca.gov.
The summaries of all complaints and grievances shall include, but not limited to, the
following:
• Date the complaint/grievance was received
• Date the events related to the complaint/grievance occurred
• First and last name of the participant that the complaint/grievance is related to
• First and last name of staff involved, if the complaint/grievance is against a
particular staff
• Name of provider, if the complaint is against a contractor or downstream
subcontractor
POs must also submit verification of all required completed refresher trainings to DHCS
on the quarterly complaint/grievance report.
POs must submit an annual SB 923 grievance summary to DHCS through a secure
encrypted email to PACECompliance@dhcs.ca.gov, that shall include a summary of all
grievances related to TGI health care including:
• The number of complaints substantiated and unsubstantiated
• PO or contractor staff named in grievance, specifying if staff is employed by PO
or contractor
• The number of grievances received per staff member
• Actions taken to prevent further grievances
• Information pertaining to completion of training for substantiated grievances
The initial filing should be titled, “SB 923 Complaint Summary” and should be submitted
to the DHCS no later than March 1, 2026. Subsequent filings should be submitted
annually thereafter.
PACE Policy Letter 24-03
September 9, 2024
Page 5 of 5
DHCS will use the grievance report to monitor and publicly report all grievances against
the PO contractor, and downstream contractor staff on the DHCS website as required
by WIC Section 14197.09(b)(2).
All requirements indicated in the Policy section of this PL and the associated timelines
are detailed in Attachments I-III.
Compliance
POs are responsible for ensuring that their staff, contractors, and downstream
subcontractors comply with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations, PACE
contract requirements, and other DHCS guidance, including PACE PLs. These
requirements must be communicated by each PO to all staff, contractors, and
downstream subcontractors. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in
DHCS imposing Corrective Action Plans (CAP), as well as administrative and/or
monetary sanctions for non-compliance pursuant to the PACE DHCS contract.
If the requirements in this PL necessitate a change to the PO’s P&Ps related to
selection and monitoring of contractors, downstream subcontractors, provider
directories or grievances, POs must submit their updated P&Ps/templates via email,
PACE@dhcs.ca.gov, within 90 days of release of this PL to DHCS for review and
approval.
Sincerely,
ORIGINAL SIGNED BY
Cortney Maslyn, Chief
Integrated System of Care Division
Department of Health Care Services
Enclosures
Attachment I
Attachment II
Attachment III