Cart
0
Back
Mission & Vision
Code of Conduct
History
Building History
Our Team
Join Our Team
Volunteer
News
Contact
Financials
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Back
Archives
Galleries
Library
Back
Community Mondays
Peer Counseling
The Elder Initiative
Trans Programs
Elder Resources
Trans Resource Center
Wellness Programs
Back
Recovery Meetings
Community Resources
Back
Donate
Shop
Sponsorship Opportunities
Volunteer
Empowerment Programs are now held at St. Luke & The Epiphany (330 South 13th Street )
Empowerment Programs are now held at St. Luke & The Epiphany (330 South 13th Street )
Want Someone To Talk To?
We're Here.
267-416-0451
The Peer Counseling Program of the William Way LGBT Community Center offers one-to-one counseling that is confidential and free of charge. We offer short-term, goal-oriented counseling by addressing many of the crucial issues facing members of our community, including:
Coming out
Sexual identity
Relationships
Family issues
Isolation and loneliness
Substance abuse
HIV and AIDS
Aging
Legal issues
Health and safety
Peer counselors are also available to meet personally with groups and organizations who would like to learn more about the services we offer. Please contact info@waygay.org about scheduling a presentation.
Our Counselors
Peer counselors are not therapists, and we do not diagnose or prescribe medication. We are volunteers trained and supervised by mental health professionals. We work closely with our clients to help them make changes and see results.
We also offer clients referrals to resources and information on a variety of issues, including local organizations, support groups and LGBT-friendly therapists.
PLEASE NOTE: Because we are an anonymous service, we do not collect any identifying information from our clients, including last names, addresses or telephone numbers. Therefore, we are not able to contact clients directly or respond to messages left on our voicemail system.
Our Hours
Monday - Friday 6:00 pm to 9:00 pm
We are available by phone Monday - Friday
In-person counseling available Monday - Thursday
No appointment needed!
Get In Touch
PHONE
267-416-0451
EMAIL
peercounseling@waygay.org
WALK IN
330 S 13th St
Philadelphia, PA 19107
Free Talkspace For Men Who Love Men
We welcome community members to join us in the virtual WayGay Talk Space for gay, bi, queer and trans men who love men. This space is an opportunity for community members to connect with each other and have meaningful conversations regarding topics of love, relationships, intimacy and connection for men. Register at linktr.ee/waygaytalkspace .