CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS 1Denny Hoskins (3/31/25)
Secretary of State
rules of
Department of Health and Senior
Services
Division 10—Office of the Director
Chapter 10—Vital Records
Title Page
19 CSR 10-10.010 Birth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
19 CSR 10-10.020 Vital Records Issuance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
19 CSR 10-10.030 Filing a Delayed Birth Certificate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
19 CSR 10-10.040 Filing a Certificate of Live Birth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
19 CSR 10-10.050 Death Certificate Form . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
19 CSR 10-10.060 Report of Fetal Death . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
19 CSR 10-10.070 Certificate of Dissolution of Marriage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
19 CSR 10-10.080 Report of Marriage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
19 CSR 10-10.090 Access to Vital Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
19 CSR 10-10.100 Authorization for Cremation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
19 CSR 10-10.110 Amending or Correcting Vital Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
19 CSR 10-10.120 New Certificate Through Legitimation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
19 CSR 10-10.130 Missouri Adoptee Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS 3Denny Hoskins (3/31/25)
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND SENIOR SERVICES DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
TITLE 19—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND SENIOR
SERVICES
Division 10—Office of the Director
Chapter 10—Vital Records
19 CSR 10-10.010 Birth
PURPOSE: This rule concerns recording of births for babies born in
wedlock and out of wedlock.
(1) If the mother was married either at the time of conception
or birth, the name of the husband shall be entered on the
certificate as the father of the child unless paternity has been
determined otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction, in
which case the name of the father, as determined by the court,
shall be entered.
(2) If the mother was not married either at the time of
conception or birth, the name of the father shall not be entered
on the certificate of birth without the written consent of
the mother and the person to be named as the father unless
a determination of paternity has been made by a court of
competent jurisdiction, in which case the name of the father,
as determined by the court, shall be entered.
AUTHORITY: section 193.035, RSMo Supp. 1998.* This rule was
previously filed as 13 CSR 50-150.010 and 19 CSR 30-10.010.
Original rule filed July 16, 1965, effective July 26, 1965. Changed
to 19 CSR 10-10.010 July 30, 1998. Amended: Filed March 12, 1999,
effective Sept. 30, 1999.
*Original authority: 193.035, RSMo 1984, amended 1993, 1995.
19 CSR 10-10.020 Vital Records Issuance
PURPOSE: This rule authorizes local registrars to issue certifications
of birth and death records of events occurring in the state of
Missouri.
(1) Who May Issue. Computer-generated certifications of birth
and death records may be issued by the local registrar once the
record has been registered with the Bureau of Vital Records.
Permission to issue certifications grants validity and legality
to the certifications when not in conflict with the laws of this
state.
(2) Confidentiality. The state registrar and local registrars shall
request the signature, relationship to the person named on the
record, the reason for the record of each applicant for a birth
or death certification, and shall require identification of the
applicant or when a copy is requested by mail, a notarized
statement shall be required. If the applicant is under the age
of eighteen (18) years old, the signature of a parent or legal
guardian shall be substituted. An exception to this rule shall be
made when a governmental agency is obtaining information
for protection of the public interest. The signature, title of the
agent, name of agency, and employee identification shall be
required.
(3) Responsibility of Applicant. The burden of proper and ade-
quate identification of a record in the files of the Bureau of Vital
Records shall rest upon the applicant for the record. In a con-
tested case, the burden of proof that an individual is authorized
under Chapter 193, RSMo, to obtain a copy of all or any part
of a vital record shall rest upon the applicant for the record.
The state registrar or local registrars at all times may request
additional information to support the demand of an applicant
whose request for a copy appears not to be in accordance with
the law.
AUTHORITY: section 193.035, RSMo 2016.* This rule was previously
filed as 13 CSR 50-150.020 and 19 CSR 30-10.020. Original rule
filed March 6, 1951, effective March 16, 1951. Changed to 19 CSR
10-10.020 July 30, 1998. Amended: Filed March 12, 1999, effective
Sept. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed Jan. 11, 2023, effective July 30, 2023.
*Original authority: 193.035, RSMo 1984, amended 1993, 1995.
19 CSR 10-10.030 Filing a Delayed Birth Certificate
PURPOSE: This rule establishes procedures for registering a
birth certificate for an individual when a birth certificate is not
registered within the prescribed time period and establishes the
delayed birth certificate form to be registered with the Department
of Health and Senior Services for each birth occurring in this state.
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that
publication of the entire text of the material that is incorporated by
reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome or
expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this rule
shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and shall
be made available to the public for inspection and copying at no
more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies only
to the reference material. The entire text of the rule is printed here.
(1) No delayed certificate of live birth shall be registered for a
deceased individual.
(2) All delayed certificates of live birth shall be processed and
registered only at the State Bureau of Vital Records.
(3) For an individual born in Missouri for whom no prior birth
certificate is on file with the Bureau of Vital Records that
can be reasonably presumed to belong to the individual, the
following procedures shall be used to apply for a delayed
certificate of live birth:
(A) Before an individual’s twelfth birthday, the registration of
live birth shall be on a certificate of live birth form as described
in 19 CSR 10-10.040. The basic procedure shall be as nearly as
practicable the same as for registering a current certificate
of live birth. Out of hospital or institution births may require
proof of pregnancy and proof of presence in Missouri prior to
registration; or
(B) After an individual’s twelfth’s birthday, the registrant or
registrant’s parent(s) shall complete the Application/Certificate
to Record Birth After Twelfth Birthday in accordance with the
instructions contained in the application. The Application/
Certificate to Record Birth After Twelfth Birthday as published
on March 2024 by Missouri Department of Health and Senior
Services is incorporated by reference in this rule and may be
obtained at Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services,
Bureau of Vital Records, 930 Wildwood Drive, Jefferson City, MO
65109 or www.health.mo.gov. This rule does not incorporate
any subsequent amendments or additions.
(4) If a delayed certificate of live birth is rejected under the
provisions of section 193.105, RSMo, registrant may file a
petition, as prescribed in section 193.115, RSMo, with a court
4 CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS(3/31/25) Denny Hoskins
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR SERVICES
of competent jurisdiction for an order establishing a record
of the full name, date and place of birth, and the parentage
of the individual whose birth is to be registered. Registrant(s)
shall complete form CV310 Petition for Establishing Record of
Birth After 12th Birthday as published on July 2024 by the State
Judicial Review Committee, which is incorporated by reference
in this rule and may be obtained at www.courts.mo.gov. This
rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or
additions.
(5) A court order shall be required to amend a delayed certif-
icate of birth once the certificate of live birth has been estab-
lished.
AUTHORITY: sections 193.035, 193.105, and 193.115, RSMo 2016.*
This rule was previously filed as 13 CSR 50-150.030 and 19 CSR
30-10.020. Original rule filed Sept. 6, 1955, effective Sept. 16, 1955.
Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.030 July 30, 1998. Amended: Filed March
12, 1999, effective Sept. 30, 1999. Amended: Filed Oct. 4, 2024,
effective April 30, 2025.
*Original authority: 193.035, RSMo 1984, amended 1993, 1995; 193.105, RSMo 1984;
and 193.115, RSMo 1984, amended 2005.
19 CSR 10-10.040 Filing a Certificate of Live Birth
PURPOSE: This rule prescribes a time for the recording of births
and clarifies the procedure, including births not attended by a
licensed physician or midwife.
(1) Any physician, midwife or other legally authorized person in
attendance at a birth must file a birth certificate within seven
(7) days after the date of birth.
(2) If the birth was not attended, one (1) of the parents must file
a birth certificate within seven (7) days after the date of birth.
(3) The birth certificate shall include the following items:
registration district number; registrar’s number; child’s name,
date of birth, time of birth, sex; city, town or location of birth;
county of birth; place of birth; if residence (home) birth,
was it planned that way; facility name; certifier signature,
date signed, certifier’s name and title; attendant’s name and
title, attendant’s Missouri license number, attendant’s mailing
address; registrar’s signature, date signed by registrar; mother’s
name, maiden surname, date of birth, birthplace, residence—
state, county, city, town or location, street and number; inside
city limits—yes or no; years living at present address; mother’s
mailing address; father’s name, date of birth; birthplace;
signature of parent or other informant, relation to child;
permission given to provide Social Security Administrative
(SSA) with the necessary birth information to issue Social
Security number—yes or no; mother of Hispanic origin—no
or yes—specify; father of Hispanic origin—no or yes—specify;
race of mother; race of father; education—mother; education—
father; mother participated during pregnancy (check all that
apply); live births now living; live births now dead; date of
last live birth; other terminations; date of last termination;
mother married to father—yes or no; date last normal menses
began; month pregnancy prenatal care began; number of
prenatal visits; birth weight; crown heel length; clinical
estimate of gestation; plurality; if not single birth—specify;
other risk factors for this pregnancy—tobacco use during
pregnancy, alcohol use during pregnancy; mother’s height;
mother’s weight before pregnancy; weight gained during
pregnancy; apgar score; mother transferred from another
facility or physician’s office prior to delivery—yes or no; infant
transferred—yes or no; mother’s blood tested for syphilis;
prophylactic drug used in baby’s eyes; medical risk factors for
this pregnancy; obstetric procedures; complications of labor,
delivery, or both; method of delivery; abnormal conditions of
the newborn; and congenital anomalies of child.
(4) A live birth certificate shall be filed for any child showing
any evidence of life such as breathing, action of heart or
movement of voluntary muscles, after the child is entirely
outside of the mother, even if the cord is uncut and the
placenta is still attached.
AUTHORITY: section 193.085, RSMo 1986.* This rule was previously
filed as 13 CSR 50-150.040 and 19 CSR 30-10.040. Original rule filed
March 13, 1958, effective March 23, 1958. Amended: Filed Nov. 4,
1977, effective Feb. 11, 1978. Rescinded and readopted: Filed Sept.
12, 1988, effective Jan. 1, 1989. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.040 July
30, 1998.
*Original authority: 193.085, RSMo 1984, amended 1997.
19 CSR 10-10.050 Death Certificate Form
PURPOSE: This rule establishes the content of the death certificate
for each death in this state to be filed with the Department of
Health.
(1) The death certificate shall include the following items:
registration district number; registrar’s number; decedent’s
name, sex, date of death, Social Security number, age (under
1 year—months and days—under 1 day—hours, minutes), date
of birth, birthplace, was decedent ever in United States armed
forces—yes, no or unknown; place of death—hospital (specify
inpatient, emergency room (ER)/outpatient or dead on arrival
(DOA)) or other (specify nursing home, residence or other);
facility name; city, town or location of death; county of death;
marital status; surviving spouse’s name; decedent’s usual
occupation; kind of business or industry; residence—state,
county, city town or location—zip code, street and number,
inside city limits, years at present address; was decedent
of Hispanic origin—no or yes—specify; race; decedent’s
education; father’s name, mother’s name; informant’s name,
mailing address; burial, cremation or other (specify); date of
disposition; place of disposition; location; signature of funeral
service licensee or person acting as such; name and address
of facility; funeral establishment license number; immediate
cause and underlying causes of death and approximate
interval between onset and death; other significant conditions
contributing to death; if deceased was female 10–49, was
she pregnant in the last 90 days—yes, no or unknown; was
autopsy performed—yes or no; were autopsy findings available
prior to completion of cause of death—yes or no; manner of
death; date of injury; time of injury; injury at work—yes, no
or unknown; describe how injury occurred; check whether
certifying physician or medical examiner/coroner; signature
and title of certifier; date signed; time of death; name and
address of certifier, Missouri license number; case referred
to medical examiner/coroner—yes or no; name of attending
physician if other than certifier; registrar’s signature; and date
received by local registrar.
AUTHORITY: section 193.145, RSMo 2000.* This rule was previously
CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS 5Denny Hoskins (3/31/25)
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND SENIOR SERVICES DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
filed as 13 CSR 50-150.050 and 19 CSR 30-10.050. Original rule filed
Nov. 4, 1977, effective Feb. 11, 1978. Rescinded and readopted: Filed
Sept. 12, 1988, effective Jan. 1, 1989. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.050
July 30, 1998. Amended: Filed Oct. 2, 2002, effective March 30,
2003.
*Original authority: 193.145, RSMo 1984, amended 1989, 1997.
19 CSR 10-10.060 Report of Fetal Death
PURPOSE: This rule establishes the content of the report of fetal
death to be filed with the Department of Health for each fetal
death in this state.
(1) The report of fetal death shall include the following items:
registration district number; registrar’s number; fetus name;
city, town or location of delivery; county of delivery; date of
delivery; sex of fetus; place of delivery; if residence (home)
delivery, was it planned that way—yes or no; facility name;
mother’s name, maiden surname, date of birth, residence (state,
county, city, town or location), zip code, street and number,
inside city limits—yes or no, years living at present address;
father’s name, date of birth; immediate and underlying cause of
death and specify if cause is fetal or maternal; other significant
conditions; fetus died before labor, during labor or delivery or
unknown (specify); attendant’s name and title, Missouri license
number; name and title of person completing report; burial,
cremation, other (specify); cemetery or crematory, location (city
or town, state); date; name and address of facility; informant;
registrar’s signature; date received by local registrar; mother
of Hispanic origin—no or yes; father of Hispanic origin—
no or yes; mother’s race; father’s race; mother’s education;
father’s education; mother participated during pregnancy
(check all that apply); live births—now living; live births—now
dead; date of last live birth; other terminations, date of last
other termination; was mother married to father—yes or no;
date last normal menses began (month, day, year); month
pregnancy prenatal care began (specify); prenatal visits (total
number); birth weight; crown heel length; clinical estimate of
gestation (weeks); plurality (specify); if not single birth—born
first, second, third, etc. (specify); mother transferred from
another facility or physician’s office prior to delivery—yes or
no and if yes enter name of facility; medical risk factors for
this pregnancy (check all that apply); other risk factors for this
pregnancy (complete all items); obstetric procedures (check all
that apply); complications of labor or delivery or both (check
all that apply); method of delivery (check all that apply);
congenital anomalies of child (check all that apply).
AUTHORITY: section 193.165, RSMo 1986.* This rule was previously
filed as 13 CSR 50-150.060 and 19 CSR 30-10.060. Original rule filed
Nov. 4, 1977, effective Feb. 11, 1978. Rescinded and readopted: Filed
Sept. 12, 1988, effective Jan. 1, 1989. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.060
July 30, 1998.
*Original authority: 193.165, RSMo 1984.
19 CSR 10-10.070 Certificate of Dissolution of Marriage
PURPOSE: This rule establishes the content of the certificate of
dissolution of marriage for dissolutions granted by any court in
this state to be filed with the Department of Health.
(1) The certificate of dissolution of marriage shall include the
following items: case number; husband’s name, residence
(city, town or location), state, zip code, county, date of birth,
birthplace; wife’s name, maiden surname, residence (city, town
or location), state, zip code, county, date of birth, birthplace,
place of marriage (city, town or location), county, state or
foreign country; date of this marriage; date couple last resided
in same household; number of children under eighteen (18)
in this household as of the date the couple last resided in
same household; petitioner (check appropriate box); name of
petitioner’s attorney; address of attorney; date of dissolution
(month, day, year); type of decree (check appropriate box);
date recorded; number of children under eighteen (18) whose
physical custody was awarded to (designate in appropriate
spaces); child support was awarded to (check appropriate box);
county of decree; title of court; signature of certifying official;
title of certifying official; number of this marriage—husband;
number of this marriage—wife; husband—if previously
married, last marriage ended by (check box) and date; wife—if
previously married, last marriage ended by (check box) and
date; husband’s race; wife’s race; husband’s education; wife’s
education.
AUTHORITY: section 193.205, RSMo 1986.* This rule was previously
filed as 19 CSR 30-10.070. Original rule filed Sept. 12, 1988, effective
Jan. 1, 1989. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.070 July 30, 1998.
*Original authority: 193.205, RSMo 1984, amended 1996.
19 CSR 10-10.080 Report of Marriage
PURPOSE: This rule establishes the content of the report of
marriage for each marriage performed in this state to be filed with
the Department of Health.
(1) The report of marriage shall include the following items:
license number; groom’s name, age last birthday, date of birth,
birthplace, residence (city, town or location), state, zip code,
county, number of this marriage if previously married, last
marriage ended by (check appropriate box), date ended, race,
education; bride’s name, maiden surname, age last birthday,
date of birth, birthplace, residence (city, town or location),
state, zip code, county, number of this marriage if previously
married, last marriage ended by (check appropriate box)
and date ended, race, education; groom’s signature; bride’s
signature; month, day, year and time subscribed to and sworn
to; county of recording; date and time license issued; name of
recorder of deeds; signature and title of official; date ceremony
performed; where married—city, town or location; where
married—county; name of parent or legal guardian of groom
(if minor), relationship to applicant, address of parent or legal
guardian of groom, state, zip code, signature of parent or legal
guardian; name of parent or legal guardian of bride (if minor),
relationship to applicant, address of parent or legal guardian
of bride, state, zip code, signature of parent or legal guardian;
month, day and year subscribed to and sworn to; signature and
title of official.
AUTHORITY: section 193.185, RSMo 1986.* This rule was previously
filed as 19 CSR 30-10.070. Original rule filed Sept. 12, 1988, effective
Jan. 1, 1989. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.080 July 30, 1998.
*Original authority: 193.185, RSMo 1984.
6 CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS(3/31/25) Denny Hoskins
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR SERVICES
19 CSR 10-10.090 Access to Vital Records
PURPOSE: This rule protects the integrity of vital records and the
personal privacy of the registrants and determines who is entitled
to receive copies or information from vital records.
(1) The state registrar of vital records or the custodian of
permanent local vital records shall not permit anyone to
disclose information contained in vital records, or to copy
or issue a copy of all or part of any vital records except as
authorized in this rule.
(A) As authorized by section 193.255.1, RSMo 1986, the
registrant, a member of his/her immediate family, his/her
guardian or one (1) of their respective official representatives
shall be considered to have a direct and tangible interest and
may be issued a certified copy of a vital record. Others may
demonstrate a direct and tangible interest when information is
needed for determination or protection of personal or property
rights.
1. Applicants requesting records shall furnish adequate
identifying information contained on the record to insure the
correct record is being released.
2. The term immediate family shall include those family
members and in-laws in the direct line of descent up to, but
not including, cousins. Immediate family members are eligible
to receive copies of birth certificates.
3. All family members, genealogists representing a family
member and professionally recognized genealogists are
eligible to receive copies of death certificates.
4. The term official representative shall include an attorney,
physician, funeral director or other authorized agent acting in
behalf of the registrant or his/her family. An other authorized
agent shall produce a signed statement by the registrant or a
member of his/her family authorizing the release of a record.
A funeral director may act as the official representative of a
family to obtain copies of death certificates only.
5. A guardian may receive a copy of the birth certificate
of a child who is under his/her care and custody by showing
guardianship papers.
6. Foster parents may receive a copy of a birth certificate
of a child who is under their care and custody upon furnishing
a copy of their custody papers.
7. A stepparent may receive a copy of a certificate of a
legitimate birth by stating relationship.
8. An alleged father of a child may not receive a copy of
that child’s birth records unless he is shown as the father on
that record.
9. Whenever it shall be deemed necessary to establish an
applicant’s right to information from a vital record, the state
registrar or local custodian also may require identification of
the applicant or a notarized sworn statement.
(B) As authorized by section 193.245(3), RSMo (1986), the
state registrar of vital records may authorize the disclosure of
information contained in vital records for legitimate research
purposes.
1. The term legitimate means conforming to or in
accordance with generally accepted standards or principles
governing research.
2. The term research means a systematic study designed
to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. The
term generalizable means to emphasize the general character
rather than specific details of, to formulate general principles
or inferences from particulars.
3. No data shall be furnished from records for research
purposes until the state registrar of vital records has received
and approved a formal request for the research project. The
request shall be approved only if adequate assurances are
provided to assure that the research is legitimate and to protect
the confidentiality of the records requested. These assurances
include, but are not limited to:
A. Security measures shall limit access to the records to
members of the research staff;
B. Any release of records to other agencies shall be only
with prior approval from the state registrar;
C. Individuals shall not be identified in published data;
D. Upon completion of a study, the records shall be
destroyed or adequate security provided to prevent access or
disclosure; and
E. A registrant or his/her family members or acquaintances
shall not be contacted without written permission from the
state registrar.
(C) To comply with sections 192.067 and 610.021(14), RSMo
Cum. Supp. 1989, nothing in this rule shall be construed to
permit disclosure of information contained in the confidential
Information for Medical and Health Use Only section of a vital
record unless specifically authorized by the state registrar of
vital records or by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(D) As authorized by section 193.255.4, RSMo 1986, the state
registrar or the local custodian may furnish—when deemed
in the public interest and not for purposes of commercial
solicitation or private gain—copies of records or data from
records to public agencies administering health, welfare, safety,
law enforcement, education or public assistance programs,
and to private agencies approved by the state registrar. Subject
to the limitations of this rule, confidential verification of the
facts contained in a vital record may be furnished by the
state registrar of vital records or the custodian of permanent
local vital records to any federal, state, county or municipal
government agency. These confidential verifications shall be
on forms prescribed and furnished by the state or local registrar
of vital records or on forms furnished by the requesting agency
and acceptable to the state or local registrar; or the state
registrar or the custodian of permanent local vital records may
authorize the verification in other ways when it shall prove
in the best interests of the office of the state or local registrar.
(E) Representatives of heir-tracing companies establishing
personal or property rights and reporters for newspapers,
radio, television or other news media when investigating news
stories are allowed access to vital records subject to restrictions
outlined in section 193.245, RSMo 1986. These representatives
and reporters shall provide proper identification and state in
writing the proposed use of the requested record.
1. To protect the integrity of the birth records and to
enforce the provisions of sections 193.125 and 193.245(1), RSMo
1986, nothing in this rule shall be construed as authorization
to permit reporters physical inspection of the original or
permanent birth certificates or the birth indexes of the state
or local registrar. Access shall be limited to searches conducted
and copies made by the vital records staff. A fee as authorized
by law shall be levied.
2. To protect the integrity of the death records, physical
inspection of the original or permanent death certificates
are prohibited. Access to death indexes shall be permitted
under supervised conditions during normal working hours
on regular work days. Authorization for physical access and
inspection of death record indexes shall be approved by the
vital records office in advance to insure availability of proper
supervision and minimization of office disruption. The state or
local registrar shall determine work area location and quantity
of indexes made available at any one (1) time. Searches of death
CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS 7Denny Hoskins (3/31/25)
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND SENIOR SERVICES DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
indexes conducted by reporters and representatives of heir-
tracing companies do not require a fee. Copies of death records
shall be made by vital records staff upon request of reporters or
heir-tracing representatives. Copy fees as required by law will
be levied. Cause of death information shall be released to the
news media or heir-tracing companies only if the information
is needed for their research and not for personal information.
(F) A listing of persons who are born or who die on a particular
date may be disclosed upon request, but no information from
the record other than the name and the date of the birth or
death shall be disclosed. A fee may be charged to recapture the
expense of generating these listings.
(G) When the state registrar of vital records or the custodian
of permanent local vital records finds evidence that a
certificate was registered or application or request was made
through misrepresentation or fraud, s/he shall have authority
to withhold the issuance of a copy of the certificate until a
court determination of the facts has been made.
(H) Nothing in this rule shall be construed as authorization
to permit access to or inspection of the vital records or indexes
in the vital records offices by any person other than the state
or local custodian or his/her employees unless otherwise
authorized in this rule.
AUTHORITY: sections 192.067, 193.145, 193.255.1, 193.255.4 and
610.021(5), RSMo Supp. 1989 and 193.155, RSMo 1986.* This rule
was previously filed as 19 CSR 30-10.090. Original rule filed Nov.
14. 1988, effective Jan. 27, 1989. Amended: Filed June 14, 1989,
effective Sept. 11, 1989. Amended: Filed June 4, 1990, effective Dec.
31, 1990. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.090 July 30, 1998.
*Original authority: 192.067, RSMo 1988; 193.145, RSMo 1984, amended 1989; 193.255,
RSMo 1984; 193.155, RSMo 1984 and 610.021, RSMo 1987.
19 CSR 10-10.100 Authorization for Cremation
PURPOSE: This rule establishes procedures required prior to
cremation of a dead human body.
(1) If the cause of death can be established within seventy-two
(72) hours after death, a completed death certificate certifying
the cause of death as determined by the medical examiner/
coroner or physician shall be delivered or mailed to the local
registrar of the county where the death occurred before a body
is cremated.
(2) If a completed death certificate cannot be filed because
the cause of death has not been determined, the medical
examiner/coroner or physician certifying the cause of death
shall give the funeral director notice of the reason for the delay.
A body shall not be cremated until written authorization by
the medical examiner/coroner or physician is received by the
funeral director. This authorization shall be a signed statement
which identifies the deceased and authorizes final disposition
by cremation.
(3) Management of a crematory shall require from an authorized
funeral home representative presenting a body for cremation
a signed statement which identifies the deceased and which
states that—
(A) A completed death certificate has been filed with the
local registrar where the death occurred; or
(B) The funeral director has received a written authorization
to cremate the body from the medical examiner/coroner or
physician who will be certifying the cause of death.
AUTHORITY: sections 193.145 and 193.175, RSMo 1986.* This rule
was previously filed as 19 CSR 30-10.100. Original rule filed July
15, 1991, effective Jan. 13, 1992. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.100 July
30, 1998.
*Original authority: 193.145, RSMo 1984, amended 1989 and 193.175, RSMo 1984.
19 CSR 10-10.110 Amending or Correcting Vital Records
PURPOSE: This rule identifies when an affidavit is appropriate to
amend or correct a vital record and when a court order is required.
(1) A request for correction(s) of a certificate shall be made
to the Bureau of Vital Records. The request shall identify the
certificate to be corrected by stating whether it is a birth,
death, or fetal death record; the name and sex of the registered
person; the date of the event; which items are omitted or in
error; and the correct information for the items. The Bureau
of Vital Records shall make available a correction affidavit to
the applicant with instructions regarding who should sign and
what documentary proof is required to support the correction
requested. The correction affidavit process shall only be utilized
to restore an item to its intended original value.
(A) To correct an item(s) on a certificate, documentary
evidence necessary to preserve the integrity of the certificate
shall be required. Depending on the number of items to be
corrected, more than one (1) document may be required.
Corrections, other than those that are court ordered, require
a notarized affidavit or electronic submission in the Missouri
Electronic Vital Records System by an approved professionally
licensed or certified data provider or a person in charge of a
licensed institution or such person’s designated representative.
Documentary evidence which supports the alleged facts shall
be a filed document which shows, as a minimum, the correct
full name and correct age or date of birth and, when possible,
shall have been filed at least five (5) years prior to the date of
application for the amendment. A filed document is defined
as a record which is permanently maintained by an agency,
organization, or business and is accessible for verification at a
later date.
(B) The burden of submitting proof is on the applicant.
The state registrar shall determine whether the document
submitted satisfactorily supports the correction requested.
When the applicant cannot submit proper documentation, the
applicant shall be notified of the deficiencies and given appeal
rights to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2) Major deficiencies on individual vital records shall be
corrected or amended by court order. The Bureau of Vital
Records shall be furnished with a certified copy of an order
from a court of competent jurisdiction indicating the desired
change(s). The order shall identify the record(s) as presently
filed and indicate the items to be corrected or amended.
(A) Major deficiencies specifically requiring a court order are
those that—
1. Change year of birth on a birth record;
2. Change any birth, death, or fetal death record created
or previously amended or corrected by court order, adoption,
or legitimation;
3. Change an item previously amended or corrected by
affidavit, except when the cause or manner of death on a death
record is being corrected from pending investigation;
8 CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS(3/31/25) Denny Hoskins
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR SERVICES
4. Change on a birth record the registrant’s first name,
middle name, last name, or suffix when different from the
mother’s birth certificate worksheet used to originally register
the birth certificate (not including if first and middle names
not yet chosen);
5. Completely change the mother’s name on a birth record.
The mother’s first, middle, and maiden name can be corrected
by a notarized affidavit from the hospital’s medical records
department if the hospital prepared the original record in error.
If the error was not made by the hospital, then one (1) of the
recorded parents or the registrant, if of legal age, shall furnish
a notarized affidavit requesting correction and a certified copy
of the mother’s birth record or a certified copy of the parent’s
marriage certificate from the recorder of deeds’ office or a
certified statement of marriage;
6. Completely change, on the birth record, the name of the
natural parent or add the name of a parent when deceased;
7. Change, on the birth record, the surname of the
registrant, last name of the mother, or the last name of the
father by changing three (3) or more letters, or by changing one
(1) or two (2) letters which results in a different pronunciation
of the last name;
8. Change, on the death record, the last name of
the deceased by changing three (3) or more letters or by
changing one (1) or two (2) letters which results in a different
pronunciation of the last name;
9. Change both the sex and registrant’s name when the
name appears to be that typically used for the opposite sex;
10. Change a written signature (new signature will be
typed); or
11. Delete father’s name on a birth record. To delete the
father’s name from a birth certificate, the court order shall find
that he is not the natural father and then direct the Bureau of
Vital Records to delete his name from the birth record. If the
court also finds the natural father and the mother have been
legally married, the birth certificate can be legitimated by
the same court order. The order shall give the date and place
of marriage. The order also shall give the natural father’s full
name, date of birth, state of birth, race, Social Security number,
and the natural mother’s date of birth and Social Security
number to establish a new birth certificate by legitimation. If
the child’s name is to be changed, the order also shall indicate
the name change.
(3) The original certificate/office working copy of the birth,
death, or fetal death shall have the amendment or correction
entered on its face by interlineation with a line drawn through
the incorrect entry or, if possible, by electronic deletion of the
incorrect entry and replacement with the updated item. The
item name and/or number and date amended or corrected
and a summary description of the method and, if applicable,
evidence submitted in support of the change shall be endorsed
on or made part of the record.
(4) Depending on the item(s) to be amended or corrected,
those qualified to make application to change a record are the
informant, midwife, physician, coroner, medical examiner, and
personnel from institutions, clinics, and funeral homes who
were responsible for filing the certificate.
(A) To correct a death certificate by affidavit, application may
be made by the informant or the funeral director or a person
acting for the funeral director, upon written authorization, on
the following items: decedent’s first name, decedent’s middle
name, decedent’s sex, decedent’s date of death (affidavit of
funeral home representative or certifier only), decedent’s
Social Security number, decedent’s age, decedent’s month of
birth, decedent’s day of birth, was decedent ever in United
States armed forces?, place of death, marital status, surviving
spouse’s name (see paragraph (2)(A)8. of this rule), decedent’s
usual occupation and kind of business or industry, decedent’s
residence, decedent’s origin and race, decedent’s education,
father’s first name, father’s middle name, mother’s first name,
mother’s middle name. Informant’s name, informant’s mailing
address, disposition information, name and address of funeral
home, and funeral establishment license number can be
corrected only by affidavit of funeral home representative.
The medical information can be corrected only by the medical
certifier, coroner, or medical examiner who certified the cause
of death.
1. An affidavit and supporting documentation is required
to correct the spelling of a last name(s) except as provided in
paragraph (2)(A)8. of this rule. Age, date of birth, and last names
of mother, father, and surviving spouse require an affidavit and
one (1) document other than an insurance policy which gives
the correct information.
2. To correct all other items on a death certificate through
the correction process, documentary evidence considered
necessary to preserve the integrity of the certificate shall be
required.
(B) To correct a fetal death certificate, application may be
made by informant, coroner, medical examiner, or personnel
from the hospital, clinic, or funeral home who prepared the
certificate.
1. Except for medical information, the correction process is
the same as for a birth or death certificate.
2. The medical information can be corrected only by the
medical certifier, coroner, medical examiner, or personnel
of the institution responsible for filing the certificate. Cause
of death information can be corrected only by the medical
certifier, coroner, or medical examiner.
3. To correct all other items on a fetal death certificate,
documentary evidence considered necessary to preserve the
integrity of the certificate shall be required.
(C) To correct a birth certificate, application may be made
by one (1) of the parents, the legal guardian, the registrant,
if of legal age, or the individual or individual representing
the institution responsible for the filing of the certificate. An
affidavit and any required supporting document shall be filed
according to the requirements of the following chart:
CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS 9Denny Hoskins (3/31/25)
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND SENIOR SERVICES DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
Items Corrected or Inserted Affidavit of
Registrant or
Parent if <18 yrs.
Affidavit of Hospital
or Attendant
Supporting
Documentation
Other
If an item on this chart is marked with an “X,” an affidavit and/or document is required as indicated.
When both affidavit columns are marked with an “X,” an affidavit will be accepted by either 1)
registrant or parent if <18 yrs. or 2) hospital or attendant (only one affidavit is required).
CHILD’S NAME
First, Middle X X X See paragraph (2)(A)4.
of this rule.
Last X X X See paragraphs (2)(A)4.
and (2)(A)7. of this rule.
Affidavit not required if
court ordered.
Suffix X X X See paragraph (2)(A)4.
of this rule.
No Name X X X Document must show
mother’s name prior to first
marriage (maiden) or
father’s name on
record.
CHILD’S DATE OF BIRTH
Day, Month X X X
Year X See paragraph (2)(A)1. of
this rule.
CHILD’S TIME OF BIRTH X X
CHILD’S SEX X X X See paragraph (2)(A)9.
of this rule.
Affidavit not required if
court ordered. Court order if
1) sex changed by surgical
procedure or 2) see
paragraph (2)(A)9. of this
rule.
MOTHER’S NAME
First, Middle X X X See paragraph (2)(A)5.
of this rule.
Last (Legal) X X X See paragraph (2)(A)7.
of this rule.
Affidavit not required if
court ordered.
Prior to First Marriage
(Maiden)
X X X See paragraph (2)(A)5.
of this rule.
Affidavit not required if
court ordered.
MOTHER’S AGE/
DATE OF BIRTH
X X X
MOTHER’S RACE X X X
MOTHER’S STATE OF
BIRTH
X X X
10 CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS(3/31/25) Denny Hoskins
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR SERVICES
Items Corrected or Inserted Affidavit of
Registrant or
Parent if
<18 yrs.
Affidavit of Hospital
or Attendant
Supporting
Documentation
Other
FATHER’S NAME
First, Middle X X X
Last X X X See paragraphs (2)(A)6.
and (2)(A)7. of this rule.
FATHER’S AGE/
DATE OF BIRTH
X X X
FATHER’S RACE X X X
FATHER’S STATE OF
BIRTH
X X X
NOTE:
1. The medical information can be changed only by the medical certifier or personnel of the
institution responsible for filing the certificate.
2. To correct other items on a birth certificate, documentary evidence shall be required as is
considered necessary to preserve the integrity of the certificate.
3. Original documents for amending or correcting certificates are not required unless otherwise
specified; copies of most documents are acceptable as supplemental proof.
CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS 11Denny Hoskins (3/31/25)
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND SENIOR SERVICES DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
AUTHORITY: sections 193.035 and 193.215, RSMo 2016.* This rule
was previously filed as 19 CSR 30-10.110. Original rule filed Jan. 24,
1992, effective June 25, 1992. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.110, July 30,
1998. Amended: Filed March 15, 2023, effective Sept. 30, 2023.
*Original authority: 193.035, RSMo 1984, amended 1993, 1995, and 193.215, RSMo
1984, amended 1994, 1997, 1998, 2014.
19 CSR 10-10.120 New Certificate Through Legitimation
PURPOSE: This rule defines the documentation required to
legitimate a birth record.
(1) If the mother marries the natural father after the birth of
their child, a new birth certificate can be created by the mother
furnishing certified copies of her marriage license or marriage
certification to the natural father. If the mother previously was
married, certified copies of other marriage licenses or marriage
certification also shall be furnished. Notarized affidavits shall
be signed by the mother and father.
(A) If the father is deceased, a notarized affidavit is required
from one (1) of the alleged father’s parents or his brother or
sister stating that s/he believes him to be the father of the child
based on an oral or written statement of the man. A certified
copy of the father’s death certificate also is required.
(B) If the mother is deceased, an affidavit is required from
one (1) of the mother’s parents or her brother or sister stating
that s/he believes the man to be the father of the child based
on an oral or written statement of the man. A certified copy of
the mother’s death certificate also is required.
(2) A court-ordered legitimation shall be obtained when the
requirements of section (1) of this rule cannot be met. The court
shall find that the natural parents are or were legally married
and state the date and place of marriage. The order also shall
give the natural father’s full name, date of birth, state of birth,
race and Social Security number, and the natural mother’s date
of birth and Social Security number in order to establish a new
birth certificate by legitimation. If the child’s surname is to be
changed to the father’s surname, the order also shall indicate
this change.
AUTHORITY: section 193.135, RSMo 1986.* This rule was previously
filed as 19 CSR 30-10.120. Original rule filed Jan. 24, 1992, effective
June 25, 1992. Changed to 19 CSR 10-10.120 July 30, 1998.
*Original authority: 193.135, RSMo 1984.
19 CSR 10-10.130 Missouri Adoptee Rights
PURPOSE: This rule provides the process for an adoptee, an
adoptee’s attorney, and the birth parents of an adoptee to receive
a copy of the adoptee’s original birth certificate, the process for a
birth parent and the adoptee to state his or her contact preference
regarding whether and how the adoptee/birth parent can contact
him or her, the process for completion of a medical history form
by a birth parent, and the process for lineal descendants of a
deceased adoptee to receive a copy of the adoptee’s original birth
certificate.
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: The secretary of state has determined that the
publication of the entire text of the material which is incorporated
by reference as a portion of this rule would be unduly cumbersome
or expensive. This material as incorporated by reference in this
rule shall be maintained by the agency at its headquarters and
shall be made available to the public for inspection and copying
at no more than the actual cost of reproduction. This note applies
only to the reference material. The entire text of the rule is printed
here.
(1) For purposes of this rule only, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise, the following terms mean:
(A) “Adoptee,” an adopted person who was born in Missouri
and is at least eighteen (18) years of age;
(B) “Adoptee Contact Preference Form,” a form used by an
adoptee to indicate his or her preference about contact with
the birth parent(s);
(C) “Applicant,” the person completing application for a
form or certificate as specified in this rule and may be the
adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, birth parent, or lineal descendant
of a deceased adoptee;
(D) “Attorney,” a currently-licensed member of the Missouri
Bar or bar of another state of the United States;
(E) “Birth parent,” the parent(s) identified on the adoptee’s
original birth certificate;
(F) “Birth Parent Contact Preference Form,” a form used by
a birth parent to indicate his or her preference about contact
with the adoptee;
(G) “Birth Parent Medical History Form,” a form used by a
birth parent to provide his or her medical history information
to the adoptee;
(H) “Department,” the Missouri Department of Health and
Senior Services;
(I) “Identifying information,” the name, date of birth, place of
birth, and last known address of the biological parent;
(J) “Intermediary,” the person or agency identified by the
birth parent or adoptee to act as a means of contact between
the birth parent and adoptee;
(K) “Lineal descendant,” a person who is in direct line to an
ancestor, such as child, grandchild, great-grandchild, and so
on, either by blood or legal adoption. This does not include a
step-child or collateral descendant. Collateral descendants are
those from the line of a brother, sister, aunt, or uncle;
(L) “Original birth certificate,” the adoptee’s registered birth
certificate sealed upon court order at the time of adoption;
(M) “Redact,” to obscure or remove identifying information.
(2) Birth Parent Contact Preference Form. A birth parent may
state his or her preference for contact with the adoptee by
completing a Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form and a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form as published
August 2018 which are incorporated by reference in this rule
and may be obtained at www.health.mo.gov or by calling
(573) 751-6387. This rule does not incorporate any subsequent
amendments or additions. Completed forms may be delivered
in person to the department at 930 Wildwood Drive, Jefferson
City, Missouri, or by mail to the Department of Health and
Senior Services, PO Box 570, Jefferson City, MO 65102.
(A) A birth parent shall provide to the department adequate
information as requested on the Cover Sheet for Birth Parent
Contact Preference Form so that the department can identify
the correct sealed file in which to place the form. A birth
parent shall also pay a non-refundable fee for processing the
form and searching for the original birth record in an amount
equal to the fee for a certified copy of a birth certificate. If the
department is unable to identify the correct sealed file based
upon the information provided by the birth parent on the Cover
Sheet for Birth Parent Contact Preference Form, the department
12 CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS(3/31/25) Denny Hoskins
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR SERVICES
shall return the Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form and the Birth Parent Contact Preference Form to the birth
parent.
(B) A birth parent may change his or her contact preference
by completing a new Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Contact
Preference Form and Birth Parent Contact Preference Form. A
birth parent shall also pay a non-refundable fee for processing
the form and searching for the original birth record in
an amount equal to the fee for a certified copy of a birth
certificate. The forms and fee shall be mailed or delivered to
the department at the address listed in section (2) above. If the
department is unable to identify the correct sealed file based
upon the information provided by the birth parent on the Cover
Sheet for Birth Parent Contact Preference Form, the department
shall return the Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form and the Birth Parent Contact Preference Form to the birth
parent.
(C) A birth parent may request that an adoptee contact him
or her only through an intermediary, rather than be contacted
directly by the adoptee, as indicated by the birth parent on the
Birth Parent Contact Preference Form. In this case, the birth
parent shall write the name and contact information of the
intermediary on the Birth Parent Contact Preference Form.
(D) If a birth parent has filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form with the department, the department shall provide a
copy of the form to the adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or lineal
descendant applicant.
(E) If a birth parent has filed more than one (1) Birth Parent
Contact Preference Form, the department shall issue a copy of
only the most recently dated Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form to the adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or lineal descendant
applicant.
(F) The Birth Parent Contact Preference Form issued to the
adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or lineal descendant shall not
include the Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form.
(G) The department shall not issue a copy of the original
birth certificate to the adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, birth
parent, or lineal descendant applicant when—
1. The applicant does not meet the requirements of section
193.128, RSMo, and this rule; or
2. Both birth parents have filed a Birth Parent Contact
Preference Form indicating that they prefer not to be contacted
or prefer contact through an intermediary.
(H) The department shall issue a non-certified, unredacted
copy of the original birth certificate stamped “For genealogical
purposes only-not to be used for establishing identity” upon
request to a qualified adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, birth parent,
or lineal descendant applicant when—
1. The original birth certificate lists two (2) parents and
neither birth parent has filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form;
2. The original birth certificate lists two (2) parents
and both have filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form
indicating he/she prefers to be contacted;
3. The original birth certificate lists two (2) parents and
one (1) parent has filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form
indicating that he/she prefers to be contacted and the other
parent has not filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form;
4. The original birth certificate only lists one (1) parent and
that parent has filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form
indicating that he/she prefers to be contacted; or
5. The original birth certificate only lists one (1) parent
and that parent has not filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference
Form.
(I) The department shall issue a non-certified copy of the
original birth certificate stamped “For genealogical purposes
only-not to be used for establishing identity” to the adoptee,
adoptee’s attorney, birth parent, or lineal descendant applicant
with the identifying information redacted for the birth parent
who indicated they prefer not to be contacted or preferred to
be contacted by an intermediary when—
1. The original birth certificate only lists one (1) parent and
that parent has filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form
indicating that he/she prefers not to be contacted or prefers
contact by an intermediary;
2. The original birth certificate lists two (2) parents and
one (1) parent has filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form
indicating that he/she prefers not to be contacted or prefers
contact through an intermediary and the other parent has not
filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form; or
3. The original birth certificate lists two (2) parents and
one (1) parent has filed a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form
indicating that he/she prefers not to be contacted or prefers
contact through an intermediary and the other parent has filed
a Birth Parent Contact Preference Form indicating that he/she
prefers to be contacted.
(3) Birth Parent Medical History Form. A birth parent may
provide or update his or her medical history by completing
a Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Medical History Form and a
Birth Parent Medical History Form as published August 2018
which are incorporated by reference in this rule and may be
obtained at www.health.mo.gov or by calling (573) 751-6387.
This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or
additions. Completed forms may be delivered in person to the
department at 930 Wildwood Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri, or
by mail to the Department of Health and Senior Services, PO
Box 570, Jefferson City, MO 65102.
(A) A birth parent shall furnish to the department adequate
information as requested on the Cover Sheet for Birth Parent
Medical History Form so that the department can identify the
correct sealed file in which to place the Birth Parent Medical
History Form. If the department is unable to identify the correct
sealed file based upon the information provided on the Cover
Sheet for Birth Parent Medical History Form, the department
shall return the Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Medical History
Form and the Birth Parent Medical History Form to the birth
parent.
(B) A birth parent may change or update the Birth Parent
Medical History Form by completing a new Cover Sheet for
Birth Parent Medical History Form and Birth Parent Medical
History Form and delivering or mailing the forms to the
department at the address listed in section (3) above.
(C) A birth parent shall provide information regarding only
him or herself, and his or her blood relatives, such as mother,
father, sisters, brothers, grandparents, and other biological
children on the Birth Parent Medical History Form.
(D) If a birth parent has filed more than one (1) Birth Parent
Medical History Form, the department shall release to the
applicant a copy of only the most recently dated form.
(E) The department shall not use the information on the Cover
Sheet for Birth Parent Medical History Form or Birth Parent
Medical History Form for statistical or any other purposes and
shall not disclose the information to anyone other than the
adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or lineal descendant applicant.
(F) The copy of the Birth Parent Medical History Form issued
to the adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or lineal descendant shall
not include the Cover Sheet for Birth Parent Medical History
Form.
CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS 13Denny Hoskins (3/31/25)
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
AND SENIOR SERVICES DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
(4) Adoptee Contact Preference Form. An adoptee may state
his or her preference for contact with the birth parent(s) by
completing a Cover Sheet for Adoptee Contact Preference Form
and an Adoptee Contact Preference Form as published August
2018 which are incorporated by reference in this rule and may
be obtained at www.health.mo.gov or by calling (573) 751-6387.
This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments or
additions. Completed forms may be delivered in person to the
department at 930 Wildwood Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri, or
by mail to the Department of Health and Senior Services, PO
Box 570, Jefferson City, MO 65102.
(A) An adoptee shall provide to the department adequate
information as requested on the Cover Sheet for Adoptee
Contact Preference Form so that the department can identify
the correct sealed file in which to place the form. An adoptee
shall also pay a non-refundable fee for processing the form
and searching for the original birth record in an amount
equal to the fee for a certified copy of a birth certificate. If the
department is unable to identify the correct sealed file based
upon the information provided by the adoptee on the Cover
Sheet for Adoptee Contact Preference Form, the department
shall return the Cover Sheet for Adoptee Contact Preference
Form and the Adoptee Contact Preference Form to the adoptee.
(B) An adoptee may change his or her contact preference by
completing a new Cover Sheet for Adoptee Contact Preference
Form and Adoptee Contact Preference Form. An adoptee
shall also pay a non-refundable fee for processing the form
and searching for the original birth record in an amount
equal to the fee for a certified copy of a birth certificate. The
forms and fee shall be mailed or delivered to the department
at the address listed in section (4) above. If the department
is unable to identify the correct sealed file based upon the
information provided by the adoptee on the Cover Sheet for
Adoptee Contact Preference Form, the department shall return
the Cover Sheet for Adoptee Contact Preference Form and the
Adoptee Contact Preference Form to the adoptee.
(C) An adoptee may request that a birth parent contact him
or her only through an intermediary, rather than be contacted
directly by the birth parent, as indicated by the adoptee
on the Adoptee Contact Preference Form. In this case, the
adoptee shall write the name and contact information of the
intermediary on the Adoptee Contact Preference Form.
(D) If an adoptee has filed an Adoptee Contact Preference
Form with the department, the department shall provide a
copy of the form to the birth parent and lineal descendant
applicant.
(E) If an adoptee has filed more than one (1) Adoptee Contact
Preference Form, the department shall issue a copy of only the
most recently dated Adoptee Contact Preference Form to the
birth parent or lineal descendant applicant.
(F) The Adoptee Contact Preference Form issued to the birth
parent and lineal descendant applicant shall not include the
Cover Sheet for Adoptee Contact Preference Form.
(5) Adoptee, Adoptee’s Attorney, and Birth Parent Request for
Original Birth Certificate. An adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or
birth parent may request a copy of the adoptee’s original birth
certificate by completing an Application for Non-Certified Copy
of an Original Birth Certificate by Adoptee, Adoptee’s Attorney,
or Birth Parent form which is incorporated by reference in this
rule as published August 2018 and may be obtained at www.
health.mo.gov or by calling (573) 751-6387. This rule does not
incorporate any subsequent amendments or additions. The
application shall include a non-refundable fee in an amount
equal to the fee for a certified copy of a birth certificate.
Completed forms and fees may be delivered in person to the
department at 930 Wildwood Drive, Jefferson City, Missouri, or
by mail to the Department of Health and Senior Services, PO
Box 570, Jefferson City, MO 65102.
(A) If the adoptee’s attorney submits the Application for
Non-Certified Copy of an Original Birth Certificate by Adoptee,
Adoptee’s Attorney, or Birth Parent form, the attorney shall
provide the department with a statement signed by the
adoptee or other documentation establishing the attorney’s
authority to act on behalf of the adoptee.
(B) The applicant shall furnish to the department adequate
information as requested on the Application for Non-Certified
Copy of an Original Birth Certificate Adoptee, Adoptee’s
Attorney, or Birth Parent form so that the department can
identify the correct sealed file containing the original birth
certificate.
(C) The department shall issue copies of the original
birth certificate to the adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or birth
parent(s) as provided in subsections (2)(G)-(I) of this rule. If the
department cannot locate the original birth certificate, the
department shall issue to the applicant a written statement
that no record was found.
(D) The copy of the original birth certificate issued to the
adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or birth parent applicant shall be
stamped “For genealogical purposes only—not to be used for
establishing identity.”
(E) If the adoptee’s birth parent(s) have provided a Birth
Parent Contact Preference Form or Birth Parent Medical History
Form to the department, the department shall provide a
copy to the adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or lineal descendant
applicant.
(6) Lineal Descendant Request for Original Birth Certificate.
Lineal descendants of a deceased adoptee may request a
copy of the adoptee’s original birth certificate by completing
an Application for Non-Certified Copy of an Original Birth
Certificate by Lineal Descendant form which is incorporated
by reference in this rule as published August 2018 and may be
obtained at www.health.mo.gov or by calling (573) 751-6387.
This rule does not incorporate any subsequent amendments
or additions. The application shall include a non-refundable
fee in an amount equal to the fee for a certified copy of a
birth certificate. Completed forms and fees may be delivered
in person to the department at 930 Wildwood Drive, Jefferson
City, Missouri, or by mail to the Department of Health and
Senior Services, PO Box 570, Jefferson City, MO 65102.
(A) The applicant shall furnish to the department adequate
information as requested on the Application for Non-Certified
Copy of an Original Birth Certificate by Lineal Descendant
form so that the department can identify the correct sealed file
containing the original birth certificate.
(B) The department shall not issue a copy of the original birth
certificate to the applicant when—
1. The applicant cannot provide a certified death certificate
of the adoptee; or
2. The applicant cannot provide documentation that
confirms the applicant is a lineal descendant of the adoptee.
(C) The department shall issue copies of the original birth
certificate to the lineal descendant as provided in subsections
(2)(G)–(I) of this rule. If the department cannot locate the
original birth certificate, the department shall issue to the
applicant a written statement that no record was found.
(D) The copy of the original birth certificate issued to the
applicant shall be stamped “For genealogical purposes only—
not to be used for establishing identity.”
14 CODE OF STATE REGULATIONS(3/31/25) Denny Hoskins
Secretary of State
19 CSR 10-10—DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
DIVISION 10—OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR SERVICES
(E) If the adoptee’s birth parent(s) have provided a Birth
Parent Contact Preference Form or Birth Parent Medical History
Form to the department, or the adoptee has provided an
Adoptee Contact Preference Form to the department, the
department shall provide a copy of the form(s) to the lineal
descendant applicant.
(7) Applicants, birth parents, or others shall not send to the
department items other than the forms prescribed by this
regulation (e.g., letters, papers, photos, mementos, etc). Any
such items sent to the department shall be discarded.
(8) The department shall not issue copies of vital records,
including birth, death, marriage, or divorce records, for the
birth parents to an adoptee, adoptee’s attorney, or lineal
descendant of the adoptee.
(9) The department shall not release any information pertaining
to the adoptee other than the original birth certificate or
Adoptee Contact Preference form, if completed, to the birth
parent.
(10) The department shall not amend the adoptee’s original
birth certificate as defined in this rule.
(11) When the state registrar of vital records finds evidence
that an application was made through misrepresentation or
fraud, he or she shall have authority to withhold issuance of a
certificate until a court determination of facts has been made.
AUTHORITY: sections 193.035 and 193.045, RSMo 2016, and section
193.128, RSMo Supp. 2018.* Emergency rule filed Aug. 29, 2016,
effective Sept. 8, 2016, expired March 6, 2017. Original rule filed
Aug. 29, 2016, effective Feb. 28, 2017. Emergency amendment filed
Sept. 10, 2018, effective Sept. 20, 2018, expired March 18, 2019.
Amended: Filed Sept. 10, 2018, effective March 30, 2019.
*Original authority: 193.035, RSMo 1984, amended 1993, 1995; 193.045, RSMo 1984;
and 193.128, RSMo 2016, amended 2018.