Skip to Main Content
Need help understanding your rights as an LGBTQ+ person or someone living with HIV? Visit our virtual Help Desk.
Southern Region
Lambda Legal established the Southern Regional Office in 1997, serving ten states through advocacy, litigation, and community building. On this page, you can learn more about our current work in your region and find ways to get involved.
News and Press
Active Cases
Events
Get Involved
Reach Out to Our Help Desk
Lambda Legal’s Help Desk is a resource for the community we serve in providing general legal information and resources relating to discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, and HIV status.
Learn More
News + Press from the Southern Region
August 12, 2026
Lambda Legal Honors Dr. Jason S. Schneider with the 2026 Harry H. Harkins Jr. Luminary Award
Lambda Legal today announced it has named Dr. Jason S. Schneider as the recipient of the Harry H. Harkins Jr. Luminary Award, recognizing his extraordinary leadership, vision, and unwavering commitment to advancing equity, inclusion, and justice for LGBTQ+ communities. The award will be presented at the Lambda Legal in Atlanta benefit at the Georgia Aquarium...
June 26, 2026
Lambda Legal’s Carl Charles Named a 2026 Atlanta Pride Grand Marshal
April 14, 2026
Atlanta Leadership Council Announces Co-Chairs for Annual Event
March 12, 2026
Lambda Legal Names Carl Charles the Elayne Cassidy Nicholas Memorial Counsel for Trans and Nonbinary Rights
Regional Cases
Active Case
Voe v. Mansfield
Lambda Legal and the National Health Law Program (NHeLP) sued the State of North Carolina to block implementation of a...
Case Filed: 10/11/2023
Court: District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina
Trans Rights
Health Care
Students&#039; Rights
Youth
North Carolina
Southern Regional Office, Atlanta
Closed Case
John Doe v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County, Metropolitan Nashville Police Department
Lambda Legal, with partners McDermott Will & Emery and Merchant Gould P.C., filed a federal lawsuit against Metropolitan Government of...
Case Filed: 07/24/2023
Court: U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee
HIV
Employment
Tennessee
Southern Regional Office, Atlanta
Closed Case
Walker v. Marshall
Lambda Legal filed a federal lawsuit on behalf of two Alabama families challenging the felony health care ban, a state law...
Case Filed: 04/11/2022
Court: United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama, Northern Division
Anti-LGBT Policies
Health Care
Trans Rights
Students&#039; Rights
Alabama
Southern Regional Office, Atlanta
Lambda Legal supporters live in every state in the Southern Region. Deepen your connection to our community by hosting or joining a fundraiser or educational event in your area today.
Key events in the Southern Region include Lambda Legal in Atlanta, Lambda Legal in Fort Lauderdale, local Pride events, meetings for leadership council members, and more.
Lambda Legal supporters live in every state in the Southern Region. Deepen your connection to our community by hosting or joining a fundraiser or educational event in your area today.
Key events in the Southern Region include Lambda Legal in Atlanta, Lambda Legal in Fort Lauderdale, local Pride events, meetings for leadership council members, and more.
Lambda Legal supporters live in every state in the Southern Region. Deepen your connection to our community by hosting or joining a fundraiser or educational event in your area today.
Key events in the Southern Region include Lambda Legal in Atlanta, Lambda Legal in Fort Lauderdale, local Pride events, meetings for leadership council members, and more.
Lambda Legal supporters live in every state in the Southern Region. Deepen your connection to our community by hosting or joining a fundraiser or educational event in your area today.
Key events in the Southern Region include Lambda Legal in Atlanta, Lambda Legal in Fort Lauderdale, local Pride events, meetings for leadership council members, and more.
Events
Connect with Lambda Legal at an event near you!
Atlanta Pride
Atlanta, GA | October 10, 2026 |
All Rise with Pride and register to march or table with Lambda Legal!
RSVP
Ways to Give
Your tax-deductible gift keeps Lambda Legal’s lawyers in courtrooms across the country. That’s where we’ve won the biggest victories for our community over the past 50 years, and where we will continue to stand up for our rights.
Give Monthly
Make a recurring donation to help us continue to defend the rights of the LGBTQ+ community and everyone living with HIV.
Learn More
Liberty Circle
Join Lambda Legal’s top tier of donors, whose exceptional support gives our team the ability to strategize and succeed over the long term.
Learn More
Legacy Giving
When you name Lambda Legal as a beneficiary of your will, trust, retirement account(s) or life insurance policy, you can make a transformational investment in our work without gifting assets during your lifetime.
Learn More
Fundraise
Peer-to-peer fundraising is a great way to share Lambda Legal’s mission with your friends, family, and community—and raise money to defend and expand our work.
Learn More
Your support helps Lambda Legal protect some of the most vulnerable members of our community. Choose the option that works best for you.
More Ways to Give
Meet Your Regional Director
Michael D. Shutt, Ph.D. (he/him)
Southern Regional Director
Atlanta, Georgia
I’m a lifelong advocate for LGBTQ+ equity, social justice, and community empowerment. Based in Georgia, I lead work across 10 southern states—building partnerships, advancing advocacy, and growing resources to fuel impact. My career spans over two decades, including positions at Emory University as well as the University of Georgia, where I served as the Founding director of the LGBT Resource Center. I’ve developed and implemented campus-wide DEIB policies, created LGBTQ+ centers, led organizational change initiatives, and raised millions to support public health and equity-driven programs. I’ve also chaired nonprofit boards, including the Equality Foundation of Georgia and the LGBTQ+ Institute at the National Center for Civil and Human Rights.
Get Involved
Want to help advance the rights the LGBTQ+ community and everyone living with HIV+ in your area? Fill out the form below to be connected with opportunities in the Southern Region.
Name (Required)
First
Last
Email (Required)
Zip Code (Required)
ZIP / Postal Code
Mobile Phone
How Would You Like to Get Involved? (Required)
Lambda Legal Atlanta Leadership Council
Lambda Legal South Florida Leadership Council
Lambda Legal in Fort Lauderdale Host Committee
Be a local Lambda Legal ambassador for Lambda Legal in the Southeast
Not sure how you want to get involved? We'll help connect you!
Yes, I would like to receive email from Lambda Legal
Yes, I would like to receive text messages from Lambda Legal
CAPTCHA
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Lambda Legal can’t do this work without your support.
Your gift today keeps Lambda Legal&#039;s lawyers in courtrooms across the country fighting to strike down these morally wrong and legally unconstitutional laws, and we need your support now more than ever.
This link leads off site $25
This link leads off site $50
This link leads off site $125
This link leads off site $500
This link leads off site Other
Thank you for your submission
Thank you for playing a leading role in an organization whose unstoppable future is inseparable from the movement for LGBTQ+ rights and everyone living with HIV!
A member of our team will be in touch with you shortly.
Go back to form page
Close