Reset
VS-41 Rev. 12.2025
AFFIDAVIT OF HOMELESS STATUS FOR FEE EXEMPT
CERTIFIED RECORD OF BIRTH
PLEASE READ THE INFORMATION AND REQUIRMENTS SECTION BEFORE COMPLETING THIS AFFIDAVIT
Pursuant to KRS 213.141(d), no fee or compensation shall be allowed or paid for furnishing a certificate of birth record to a
qualified homeless individual, provided the individual has been verified as homeless. This affidavit must be used for the
purpose of requesting a fee exempt copy of birth record.
HOMELESS SERVICES PROVIDER
To be completed by a “homeless services provider” (See authorized list on reverse side)
Entity Name of Homeless Services Provider Furnishing Verification of Homelessness:
Address:
Phone Number: E-mail:
I, swear or affirm, to the best of my knowledge and belief
Printed Name of Agent for Provider
that on the date listed below in this section, Printed Name of Homeless Person or Homeless Child or Youth
is a homeless person or homeless child or youth, as defined by KRS 198A.700 or 42 U.S.C. sec.
11434a(2), and that I meet the requirements of a “homeless services provider” as defined by KRS
213.141.
Signature of Agent for Provider Date
INFORMATION
 A fee exempt certified copy of a birth record may be obtained from the State
Registrar for a registrant who was born in Kentucky.
 Each eligible person may only receive one fee exempt birth record, per application.
 Requests for fee exempt copies are still subject to other requirements outlined in the
application for obtaining copies of birth records.
 Applications for a certified copy of a birth record may be obtained by visiting the Office of
Vital Statistics website or by selecting and downloading the link provided at
https://chfs.ky.gov/agencies/dph/dehp/vsb/Forms/VS37BirthApp.pdf.
Page 1 of 2
Print
AFFIDAVIT OF HOMELESS STATUS FOR FEE EXEMPT
CERTIFIED RECORD OF BIRTH
REQUIREMENTS
Requirements for eligibility to receive a fee exempt certified copy of a birth record:
• Any entity or person lawfully entitled to request a certified copy of a birth record on
behalf of a homeless person, child, or youth.
• Per KRS 213.141 (4)(d), A “homeless person” or a “homeless youth” have the
same meaning as defined in KRS 198A.700 or 42 U.S.C. sec. 11434a(2).
• A “homeless services provider,” as defined by KRS 213.141 (4)(d)(1) - (4), who
has knowledge of a person’s status as homeless, must provide verification
through completion of the affidavit.
• The affidavit will not be considered complete unless completed and signed by the
homeless services provider making the request for the certified copy of the birth
record.
• Provide a copy of your (the requester’s) ID, which is either: an agency-issued
photo ID or a state-issued driver license for you, the requester, and a copy of
your business card or organization-issued name tag (if it does not include a
photo).
• Mail the affidavit, printed application, and copy of the requester’s
identification to:
Office of Vital Statistics
275 East Main Street 1E-A
Frankfort, KY 40621-0001
HOMELESS SERVICES PROVIDERS
A “homeless services provider” includes:
 Director or designee of a governmental or nonprofit agency.
KRS 213.141 (4) (d) 1 states… “A director or designee of a governmental or nonprofit agency that
receives public or private funding to provide services to homeless people;”
 Local educational agency liaison.
KRS 213.141 (4) (d) 2 states… “A local educational agency liaison for homeless children and
youths designated pursuant to 42 U.S.C. sec. 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii), or a school social worker or
school counselor;”
 Director or of a federal TRIO Program, Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for
Undergraduate Program.
KRS 213.141 (4) (d) 3 states… “The director or director's designee of a federal TRIO Program or
a Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Program; or”
 A financial aid administrator.
KRS 213.141 (4) (d) 4 states… “A financial aid administrator for an institution of higher
education.”