Skip to main content Home
Our Divisions
Driver and Vehicle Services
License and ID
Driver&#x27;s License and ID Card Information
Identification (ID) card
License and ID
Identification (ID) card
An ID card is proof of your identity. It does not include driving privileges. There is no minimum age for an ID card.
To get an ID card, you must apply by showing documents that prove your full name and date of birth and pay the required fee.
&#x27;If you are under 21 years old, the card is marked “Under-21” and is valid until you turn 21. Under-21 cards are laid out vertically.
When does my ID card expire?
Ages Standard ID REAL ID Enhanced ID
Under 16 valid until 21 st birthday valid until 21 st birthday* not eligible to apply
16-21 valid until 21 st birthday valid until 21 st birthday every 4 years
21-64 every 4 years every 4 years every 4 years
65 and older does not expire every 8 years every 4 years
* Children under age 18 are not required to provide ID when traveling with a companion within the United States . The companion will need acceptable ID.
Types of ID cards
Standard ID: Basic identification card acceptable documents .
Real ID : Compliant with federal regulations for air travel and entering certain federal facilities.
Enhanced ID : Allows land and sea border crossings from Canada, Mexico and some Caribbean countries.
How can I apply?
Visit an office to apply for or renew an ID card. You must present one of the following:
Current Minnesota driver’s license, ID card or instruction permit.
Minnesota license, ID card or permit with photograph, that has been expired for five years or less.
Minnesota license, ID card or permit with no photograph, that is current or expired for one year or less.
A primary document must include your full name and the month, day and year of your birth.
If you cannot provide one of these documents, you must present proof documents for the type of card you are applying for. You may request an exception if you do not have proper documents for a Standard or REAL ID.
Documents will not be accepted if laminated or otherwise altered.
Pay the required fee for your ID card. You can apply for a reduced fee or a free ID card if you are a youth experiencing homelessness .
Eligibility verification for reduced fee ID card form
What if I lost my ID card or I need to change my information?
You will need to apply for a duplicate license if your current ID card is lost, damaged or destroyed. For a duplicate ID card, the photo and signature on file will be used on your replacement card.
You may also apply for a duplicate ID card if you have changed your name or address. You will need to provide two proofs of your new address if you hold a REAL ID.
You will apply for a renewal if your card expires in the next 30 days. Our system will default to a renewal nine months before your expiration.
How can I show that my name has changed?
Minnesota law requires that you apply for a new ID card within 30 days of legally changing your name. For a name change, one of the following is necessary:
A certified marriage certificate.
A certified divorce decree or dissolution of marriage.
A certified court order.
The document must show the before and after name change. You must provide documentation of name changes , starting from the name listed on your primary document to your current name.
You may request an exception if you do not have proper documents to apply for a Standard or REAL ID.
What if my document is not in English?
All documents presented in a language other than English must also have an English translation and a certificate of translation form.
Certificate of translation form
What are the requirements for the photo on my ID card?
Your Minnesota driver&#x27;s license, ID or permit must have a full-face image. You may be asked to remove your eyeglasses.
Religious head coverings are acceptable as long as they do not cover your face. Find more information about acceptable head coverings .
You may request an exemption if you have a religious objection with the identification card image requirements.
Petition for a variance of Minnesota rules: For photographic image on card requirement
Do I need to provide a Social Security number?
You are required to provide your Social Security number on the application form if you are eligible for one.
If you are not eligible for a Social Security number, you must say that on the application form. You may need to supply additional documents.
Your Social Security number is not located on or embedded in a Minnesota driver&#x27;s license, ID or permit. It is private information that is secured on the driver’s license information system and accessible only to those lawfully authorized to access it.
Laws
Minnesota Rules 7410
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 171