Skip To Main Content
Search
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Get Insurance Help
The Division can assist you with policies purchased in the state of Florida. If your policy was purchased in another state , you need to contact the insurance office where your policy was purchased. Click on the NAIC logo to find the issuing state's contact information.
Before You Submit Your Concern
Incomplete submissions will cause delays. Before you submit your concern, review all four sections below and follow the steps to properly submit your insurance concern.
Expand all
Collapse all
CONSIDER
Before submitting your concern, please contact the insurance company and allow them the opportunity to resolve your issue. Most issues can be resolved within 30 days.
State your concerns to the company's representative.
Provide the information they request (e.g., write a formal letter of complaint, file any specific forms, provide supporting documentation, etc.).
Keep detailed records of all your communications with the insurance company.
Gather and send the required documentation to the insurance company.
If you are unable to resolve your concern with the insurance company or are not satisfied with their response, please proceed to Step 2.
VERIFY
What We Can Help With
The Division can help you with insurance concerns involving companies that issue policies within Florida that include property and casualty, health, life, annuity, disability, long-term care, warranties, bail bonds, and title insurance
companies. We can also assist you with issues concerning agents and agencies. Examples include:
Coverage Issues
Claim Disputes
Premium Issues
Policy Cancellations or Non-Renewals
Refunds
Sales Misrepresentations
What We Can't Help With
The Division is unable to assist with:
Large Employer Health Plans
If your employer's headquarters are not located in the State of Florida, contact the U.S. Department of Labor who regulates employer self-funded health plans: https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about-ebsa/ask-a-question/ask-ebsa or 866-444-3272.
Medicare Advantage Plans
The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has jurisdiction over the Medicare program: https://www.medicare.gov/talk-to-someone
Medicaid
Florida Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA) offers local liaisons to providers and recipients. They handle claims resolution, training, transportation, and manage Child Health Check-Up screenings
on a local level: https://ahca.myflorida.com/medicaid/florida-medicaid-complaints.html or 850-412-4000.
Florida KidCare
Complaints regarding a provider of service, the insurance company or HMO, enrollment, cancellation, underwriting, or other issues that involve the FHK administrative office should be referred
to customer service at 800-821-KIDS (5437) or www.floridakidcare.org .
Policies Purchased in Another State
If your issue does not involve an insurance policy purchased in Florida, please contact the appropriate state's insurance office .
LEARN
What We Can Help With
Contact the insurance company or agent/agency and require them to provide an explanation for their actions. By statute, insurance companies/agencies have 14 days to respond to the Department once an insurance concern has been
filed. We strive to resolve the issue within 30 days.
Review the company's response to make sure they followed Florida Statutes and Administrative Code.
Help you understand your insurance policy.
Recommend places you can go for help if we don't have the legal right to resolve it.
What We Can't Help With
Provide you with legal advice.
Make medical judgments or determine who is at fault.
We cannot determine a question of fact.
Determine the value of a claim, the amount owed to you, or act as your adjuster.
Compel a company to pay a claim, refund a premium, reinstate and/or issue a policy (if they have not violated any law, rule or policy provision).
GATHER
To help ensure that we receive all necessary information to investigate your submission, please provide us with the following:
The exact name of the insurance company
The full name of any agent or adjuster who may be involved
Your policy number
Your claim number and the date of your loss, if applicable
A copy of your declarations page . If it is a health insurance issue, provide a copy of the front and back of the insurance card
A detailed description of your concern
Copies of supporting documentation
Public Record Notice: Under Section 119.011(12) Florida Statutes, Public Records are all documents, papers, letters, maps, books, tapes, audio and video tapes, photographs, films, sound recordings, data processing software, or other material regardless of physical form, characteristics, or means of transmission, made or received pursuant to law or ordinance or in connection with the transaction of official business by the Department, which are used to perpetuate, communicate or formalize knowledge. https://myfloridacfo.com/publicrecords
Once you have gathered the required materials and documentation, you are ready to submit your concern. Select by clicking the "Online Insurance Assistance" link under the "Submit an Insurance Concern Online" section below.
Ready to Submit Concern
After you've reviewed the sections above you are now ready to submit your concern.
SUBMIT AN INSURANCE CONCERN ONLINE
Submit a concern related to insurance products, including bonds, warranties and annuities, online by visiting our Consumer Assistance Portal. The request is assigned to an insurance specialist to provide necessary assistance.
Consumer Assistance Portal
Get Insurance Help
Purchasing Insurance
Understanding Insurance
Mediation/Neutral Evaluation
Disaster Preparedness
Insurance FAQS
Holocaust Victims Assistance
Civil Remedy/Litigation Notices
Consumer Protections
Consumer Guides
Medical Providers
Pharmacies
Public Adjusters
Company Search
Licensee Search
Career Opportunities
Financial Literacy
Get Lean
Sign up for Consumer Alerts
Transportation Network Companies (TNCs)
Contact Us
Consumer Services Sitemap
Leave a Comment X