Tennessee Code Title 29. Remedies and Special Proceedings § 29-8-101
Current as of January 02, 2024 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
(a) The circuit, probate and county courts have concurrent jurisdiction to change names
and to correct errors in birth certificates on the application of a resident of the
county in which the application is made.
(b)(1) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, persons who have been convicted of
the following offenses shall not have the right to legally change their names:
(A) First or second degree murder; or
(B) Any offense, the commission of which requires a sexual offender to register pursuant
to the Tennessee Sexual Offender and Violent Sexual Offender Registration, Verification
and Tracking Act of 2004, compiled in title 40, chapter 39, part 2.
(2) If the court has reason to believe that the petition is being made to defraud or
mislead, is not being made in good faith, will cause injury to an individual or to
compromise public safety, then the petition shall be denied.
(3) If the person seeking to have the person's name changed has a felony conviction,
other than for those offenses enumerated in subdivision (b)(1), then the petition
is presumed to be made in bad faith, to defraud or mislead, to cause injury to an
individual or to compromise public safety. The name change shall not be granted unless the individual requesting the name change
proves by clear and convincing evidence that the petition is not based upon an intent
to defraud or mislead, is made in good faith, will not cause injury to an individual
and will not compromise public safety.
(4) This subsection (b) shall not apply if the name change is the result of a lawful
marriage, marital dissolution or adoption.
(c) No public funds shall be expended to change the name of any person who is an inmate
in the custody of the department of correction.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Tennessee Code Title 29. Remedies and Special Proceedings § 29-8-101 - last updated January 02, 2024 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/tn/title-29-remedies-and-special-proceedings/tn-code-sect-29-8-101/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Tennessee Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
Surrogate Seeks U.S. Supreme Court Stay in Newborn Parentage Dispute
The ABA Just Repealed Its Diversity and Inclusion Standard
Virginia Draws the Line on Overdose Immunity
Oh, Say, Can You See: Can Your Neighbor’s Security Cameras Legally Point at Your Property?
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
Privacy Preference center
Opt-Out Request Honored
Privacy Preference center
Your Privacy Choices
Privacy Preference Center
Your Privacy Choices
As part of your use of our website, you may have provided personal information to us in order to use our products and services. If applicable under law, you may have a right to opt-out of this information being “sold” or “shared” with third parties unrelated to the products and services and you also may have rights to delete, access, correct or manage your personal information submitted to our site using an email address or account. You may elect to exercise these rights through the form linked below.
Opt-Out Form
Privacy Preference Center
Privacy Preference Center
We use cookies and other tracking technologies to provide you with a personalized experience on our sites, such as showing you content and ads that are relevant to your interests. We may need to disclose certain information collected through those tracking technologies, like your IP address or other information that may be deemed “personal information” under certain state privacy laws, to our advertising partners or other technology providers, in order to provide such relevant content and advertising. That disclosure could be considered a “sale,” “share” or “targeted advertising” under applicable law. You can choose to opt out of having your personal information disclosed to our partners for these activities by sliding the toggle above to the left and then clicking on the “Confirm My Choices” button, or by visiting this website with an opt-out preference signal, such as Global Privacy Control.Opting out will not prevent you from seeing ads, but may result in ads or content that could be less relevant to your interests. Additionally, we may still disclose your personal information to service providers and/or processors in accordance with law and our privacy policy. Please note that in some cases supplemental terms may also apply to the data collected and shared through cookies and other tracking technologies, and these supplemental terms can be found linked in the footer of the applicable website. You can read more about our privacy practices, including managing opt-outs in your email or account settings, by visiting our privacy policy, linked in the footer.
Cookie List
Consent Leg.Interest
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
Clear checkbox label label
Apply Cancel
Confirm My Choices Allow All
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat