Skip to main content
Close Menu
Amending Your Driver’s License or Identification Card
BMV
Licenses, Permits, & IDs
Learner's Permits & Driver's Licenses Overview
Driver's License
Amending Your Driver’s License or Identification Card
Gender Change Rule Update
Effective Feb. 12, 2026, the BMV will no longer provide customers with the option to change their gender on their Indiana credential by using a court ordered gender change or physician statement per Amended Rule 140 Indiana Administrative Code section 7-1.1-3 .
The highlighted topics below cover what may be amended on a driver's license or identification card.
When submitting documents for amending a driver's license or ID, please remember:
The BMV will only accept original documents or certified copies from the issuing agency.
The BMV may refuse any document that appears fraudulent, unreliable, altered, or expired.
All documents must be in English or be presented with a verifiable accurate English translation.
Your legal name and date of birth on documents presented to the BMV must match Social Security Administration records.
Wait at least one business day after updating your information with the Social Security Administration before visiting a BMV branch.
Name Change
Date of Birth Change
Address Change
Restrictions & Endorsements
Medical Alerts
Photo Requirements
Active Military & Veteran Indicators
Name Change
If your name changes, you must visit a BMV branch within 30 days to apply for an updated license or ID card. This process cannot be done online. Before going to the BMV, you must first update your name with the Social Security Administration. Wait at least one business day after completing that change before visiting the BMV.
Acceptable documents supporting a legal name change include, but are not limited to:
Marriage license
Divorce decree (must indicate previous name and new name, unless you are returning to your maiden name)
Court order approving a change of legal name
An original or certified copy of an amended birth certificate showing a change of name
Date of Birth Change
If your date of birth is wrong on your driver's license or ID card, you must visit a BMV branch to correct it. If the mistake is on your birth certificate, contact the vital records office in the state or county where you were born.
Acceptable documents supporting the change in date of birth include:
Original or certified copy of your birth certificate from a United States jurisdiction or a United States territory.
Court order approving a change of date of birth.
An original or certified copy of an amended birth certificate showing a change in date of birth.
Address Change
The BMV maintains two address for each customer:
Residential Address
A residential address is the address the BMV requires to validate your permanent place of residency in Indiana. You have to provide two approved documents to establish or update your residential address within 30 days of the address change. You must visit a BMV branch to update your residential address; this cannot be amended online.
View Acceptable Documents Proving Indiana Residency
Mailing Address
Your mailing address is a different address you can give the BMV to receive items like license plates, renewal notices, and other mail. You may update your mailing address online at any time by signing into your myBMV account . You may also update your mailing address at any BMV branch.
Medical Alerts
You may add or remove certain medical alerts to your ID card or driver's license at a BMV branch. Submission of medical alert information is voluntary. No documentation is required to add or remove medical alert information on a credential. The accuracy of the medical alert information provided is your responsibility. Medical alerts include:
Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm
Alzheimer's
Arrhythmia
Asthma
Autism
Blind*
CHF
COPD
Coumadin
Defibrillator
Diabetes
Esophageal Varices
ESRD
Hearing Impaired
Hemophilia
Malignant Hyperthermia
Penicillin
Seizures**
Sickle Cell
Splenomegaly
Thoracic Aortic Aneurysm
*Only available for an ID card
**Requires completed Physician's Certificate of Medical Impairment State Form 50018 to be issued a driver's license
Photo Requirements for Amending a Transaction
Any change made to what is printed onto a Driver's License/ID card requires capturing a new photo to be compliant with state and federal law.
Bureau of Motor Vehicles
Online Services
Create a myBMV Account
Renew a Vehicle Registration
View Your Vehicle Title(s)
View Your Driving Record
Request a Replacement Driver's License
More IN.gov Online Services
IN.gov Subscriber Center
FAQs
When does the BMV require proof of insurance from drivers?
What should I do with a license plate I am no longer using?
When can I start driving in the car with my parents?
Is driver education required to get a license?
If my child completes an online driver education class, and then completes the 50 hours of driving to be documented on the driving log, can they get a license at 16 years and 90 days?
Will I have to pay extra if I don't renew my plates on time?
More FAQs
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Email