Skip to Content
PrEP
PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) is a comprehensive HIV prevention strategy that involves the daily oral use or bi-monthly injection of antiretroviral medications to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV.
Find a PrEP Provider
PrEP should be used along with other prevention methods to reduce the risk of other sexually transmitted infections.
PrEP Factsheet
Paying for PrEP
Truvada Patient Information
ViiVConnect
PEP
PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) is an HIV-prevention strategy using anti-retroviral medications to prevent acquiring HIV following a possible exposure.
Find a nPEP Provider
PEP
There are two types of PEP:
Occupational PEP , for an exposure that happens in the workplace (such as a needle stick in a health care setting)
Non-occupational PEP (nPEP) , for when someone is potentially exposed to HIV through sexual intercourse or injection drug use
If you think you’ve been exposed to HIV and are in need of PEP, contact your local hospital emergency room , urgent care clinic, or local county health department for PEP evaluation and treatment. To be effective, PEP must begin within 72 hours of exposure. A physician must determine what treatment is appropriate based on the nature of the exposure. PEP typically consists of 2–3 antiretroviral medications taken for 28 days.
Starting PEP after a potential exposure does not guarantee HIV prevention, but the sooner PEP is started, the better. Follow-up testing is important to determine if any next steps are needed.
PEP Factsheet
Isentress Patient Assistance Program
Gilead Patient Assistance Program
Individual & Family Health
Prevention & Wellness Toggle submenu for Prevention & Wellness Chronic Disease Prevention & Management Toggle submenu for Chronic Disease Prevention & Management Understanding Sodium
Discover Your Healthier YOU
Diabetes Prevention & Self-Management
Epilepsy Medication Assistance
Heart Disease Prevention
Insulin Medication Assistance
Injury Prevention Toggle submenu for Injury Prevention Drowning Prevention
Older Adult Falling Prevention
Rip Current Safety
Stop the Bleed
Tobacco Free Florida Toggle submenu for Tobacco Free Florida Florida Clean Air Act
Eating Healthy Seafood
Food Access Programs
Healthy Aging, Healthy Brain
Substance Use and Overdose Prevention
Mental Health Toggle submenu for Mental Health Suicide Prevention
Veteran Suicide Prevention
Youth Suicide Prevention
Preventing Mosquito and Tick Bites
Human Trafficking
Sexual Violence
HIV/AIDS Toggle submenu for HIV/AIDS AIDS Drug Assistance Program
Community Programs
Florida Comprehensive Planning Network
HIV Prevention Toggle submenu for HIV Prevention PrEP & PEP
Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS
Linkage to Care
Planning and Program Administration
HIV/AIDS
850-245-4422
Email Us
HIV/AIDS Assistance
800-FLA-AIDS (English)
800-545-SIDA (Spanish)
800-AIDS-101 (Haitian Creole)
888-503-7118 (TDD/TTY)
Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 9 p.m.
Saturday, 10:30 a.m. - 6:30 p.m.