About Us Services Groups, Classes, & Events Resources
Contact Volunteer Give
About Us
Services
Groups, Classes, & Events
Resources
Contact
Volunteer
Give
We empower gender-diverse people and their loved ones to live healthy, authentic, and joyful lives.
Since 2014, GenderNexus has served Indiana as a safe, inclusive space for gender-diverse people and their loved ones to find the support they need. Services for our clients are 100% free, always.
How can we help?
Our work helps gender-diverse people overcome social and systemic barriers through education, community, and direct support.
Stay up-to-date with us.
Sign up for our electronic newsletter.
Thank you! Your submission has been received!
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
Services
Whether you’re navigating a legal name change or looking for a community that understands you, we can help.
Services for our clients are 100% free, always.
Learn more about our services
Community Groups & Counseling
Join one of our safe, inclusive community groups for gender-diverse people and their loved ones, or come in to talk to a licensed social worker one-on-one.
Care Coordination
Get help navigating the tricky legal processes surrounding legal name and gender marker changes, securing medical referral letters, or finding LGBTQ+ friendly doctors and resources.
Education & Advocacy
Bring us to your school or workplace for a seminar-style training that spreads awareness and understanding of gender-diversity and fostering inclusive spaces.
I really want to thank you and GenderNexus. You made living life so much more comfortable for me! My top surgery is getting approved all thanks to you! You guys are truly amazing and I couldn’t have done it without you or ever thank you enough.
Who We Are
Our staff is made up of licensed social workers, gender-diverse individuals who understand your experience, and enthusiastic allies who can help you receive the support and care you need.
Learn more about GenderNexus
Our Partners
ACLU Indiana
Visit ACLU Indiana's website
CenterLink
Visit CenterLink's website
Damien Center
Visit Damien Center's website
GEKCO
Visit GEKCO's website
Indiana Youth Group
Visit Indiana Youth Group's website
Indy Pride
Visit Indy Pride's website
Lambda Legal
Visit Lambda Legal's website
Shelly&#x27;s Voice
Visit Shelly's Voice's website
Step-Up
Visit Step-Up's website
The Trevor Project
Visit The Trevor Project's website
Trinity Haven
Visit Trinity Haven's website
How can we help you on your journey?
Get in touch
We use cookies to learn more about how you&#x27;re using the site. By continuing to use the site, you consent to our use of cookies.