Off
Change your gender designation
Learn about the steps you&#039;ll need to change the gender designation on your driver license. We offer 3 options: "M" (male), "F" (female) and "X" (not exclusively male or female).
Change your standard driver license, ID card, or permit
You can change your gender designation on your standard driver license, ID card, or permit either in person or by mail. An online option is not available.
Request a change in person
To request a change in person, make an appointment to visit a driver licensing office . At the appointment, you’ll need to:
Bring your current license or ID card with you.
Verbally confirm your gender designation.
Request a change by mail
To request a change by mail, you’ll need to complete a change of Gender Designation Request form and mail it to the address on the form. After we process the form, we’ll mail you a letter to get a new card. To get a new card, you can:
Log into License Express and get your new card online.
Make an appointment to visit a driver licensing office . If you visit an office, don’t forget to bring your current license, ID card, or permit with you.
Change your enhanced driver license or enhanced ID (EDL/EID)
You can change your gender designation on your enhanced driver license or enhanced ID (EDL/EID) either in person or by mail. An online option is not available.
Request a change in person
To request a change in person, make an appointment to visit a driver licensing office . At the appointment, you’ll need to:
Bring your current license or ID card with you.
Bring a completed change of Gender Designation Request form .
Request a change by mail
To request a change by mail, you’ll need to complete a change of Gender Designation Request form and mail it to the address on the form. After we process the form, we’ll mail you a letter to get a new card. To get a new card, you can:
Log into License Express and get your new card online.
Make an appointment to visit a driver licensing office . If you visit an office, don’t forget to bring your current license, ID card, or permit with you.
Additional fees may apply
If you're only updating your gender designation, your new card is free. If you need to update more than your gender, there may be an additional fee for:
Adding other endorsements at the same time.
Updating other information on your card like your name or address.
Renewing your license – you can renew up to a year in advance.
Print
Was this information helpful?
Yes
No
How can we improve it?
Submit
Leave this field blank
Related information
Change name or address on a driver license
Learn how to change your name or address on your driver license.
Update your name or address
Update your ID card
Learn what steps you need to take to update personal information on your ID card.
Update ID
Home