Skip to main content
Court closings
1 county is currently reporting closings and/or advisories
View active closings
Dismiss alert
Alert Cagertory Placeholder
Link Text Placeholder
Weddings will be conducted by appointment only Monday through Friday, from 2:00 until 4:30 p.m. at the Mecklenburg County Courthouse. Appointments must be made online by clicking here to confirm .
The Mecklenburg County Clerk of Superior Court Office is open to the public between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Access to public records is available onsite at the courthouse during operational hours. Starting October 9, to electronically access public case information, court dates, or retrieve copies of court documents, click onto Portal , a convenient eCourts information system, that makes accessing public records quick and convenient. If you are seeking a document filed prior to October 9, 2023, and it cannot be found on Portal , requests for electronic copies of criminal, civil, or estate special proceedings documents may be obtained by sending an email request to the following Clerk Division. Please include the type of record request, party name(s), and the file number if known.
To access Criminal files, email Mecklenburg.Criminal@nccourts.org
To access Civil files, email Mecklenburg.Civil@nccourts.org
To access Estate Special Proceedings files, email Mecklenburg.ESP@nccourts.org
Skip map
Use regions/landmarks to skip ahead to chart.
The location of Mecklenburg county
Long description.
County map of North Carolina with this county highlighted.
Structure.
Chart type: Map of North Carolina
map with 100 areas.
Chart graphic.
Prosecutorial
District 26
Superior Court
District 26
District Court
District 26
Contents
County Information
Top stories
Related
County Information
Caseflow Management
Contact information for case management in Mecklenburg County
Cases of Public Interest
Find court documents for cases of public interest.
Community Access and Outreach
Offers public access to the courts, public education and outreach, and volunteer and internship coordination.
Contact Directory
Find out how to reach your Clerk of Court and other offices and representatives in Mecklenburg County.
Courthouse Technology
Learn about trial presentation and other technology available in the courthouse.
Family Court Administration
Family Court facilitates more timely, consistent and thoughtful outcomes to a family's legal issues.
Jury Service
Find information about jury service in this county.
Larry King's Clubhouse
Drop-in childcare center for children whose family members are conducting business at the courthouse or serving as jurors.
Local Administrative Schedules
Find Mecklenburg County local schedules and calendars.
Local Rules and Forms
Find Local Rules and Forms that provide procedures and guidelines for courts in Mecklenburg County.
Mecklenburg County Courthouse
Find out more information about the Mecklenburg County Courthouse.
Payment Information
Find out more about paying court fees, fines and traffic citation in Mecklenburg County.
Remote Hearings
Find out more information regarding proceedings being conducted remotely using Webex.
SelfServe Center
The 26th Judicial District SelfServe Center is a public service to all community members.
Civil Calendars
View civil court calendars.
Criminal Calendars
View criminal court calendars.
Guardian ad Litem Program
Find your local GAL program.
Court Dates
Search Portal by name, citation number, county, and more.
Find a court date
Forms
Search statewide judicial forms by keyword, form number, and more.
Find a form
Services
Find online services for court records, File & Serve, Guide & File, make payments, request interpreter, and more.
Get started
Top stories
September 21, 2026
, General News
Three Judges Appointed to Superior and District Courts
Judge Kimberly Best, Judge Robert Gilmore, and Judge Carrie Vickery have been appointed to the bench.
By North Carolina Judicial Branch
July 29, 2025
, General News
26th Judicial District (Mecklenburg County) to Hold Active Shooter Exercise on September 12, 2025
The Mecklenburg County Sheriff’s Office, in collaboration with the Mecklenburg County Court Security Committee, will be holding an active
By North Carolina Judicial Branch
May 23, 2025
, Press Release
N.C. Judicial Branch Releases Special Podcast Episode on the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence
History on Trial: Revisiting the Mecklenburg Declaration at 250.
By North Carolina Judicial Branch
More news from Mecklenburg County
Related
Courts
Family Law
Mental Health Treatment Courts
Youth Treatment Courts
Adult Treatment Courts
Family Treatment Courts
DWI Treatment Courts
Programs
Clerk Mediation Program
Family Financial Settlement Program
Juvenile Court Improvement Program
Guardian ad Litem
Child Custody and Visitation Mediation Program
Court-Ordered Arbitration
Vital Records
For birth, death, marriage, and other public records, please reach out to Mecklenburg County's Register of Deeds.