Skip to main content
Home
How We Can Help
Vermont Legal Aid and Legal Services Vermont work together to provide free civil (not criminal) legal help to low-income people who live in Vermont. Our services are free.
Legal Services Vermont screens all requests for legal help. If we can help with a legal problem, we will refer you to lawyers and advocates at Vermont Legal Aid or Legal Services Vermont. We also might refer you to other programs.
We may be able to give you advice. We may be able to tell you where to find information to help you represent yourself in court.
However, we can’t help everyone who needs help. We may not be able to help you based on your income. We do not have enough lawyers to help everyone who asks.
Problems we cannot reply to
Unfortunately, due to funding cuts, we cannot call you back or provide over-the-phone advice in the following areas . We just don't have enough staff.
Please follow the links below to helpful online legal information and tools. Or, follow this link to other possible help.
Again, we regret that if your legal issue is on the list below, we will not respond to your request:
abandoned rental unit or property
applying for state or federal benefits
auto/car/truck fraud, warranty, defective products or services
becoming the guardian of an adult
changing your name or gender marker
complaints about private lawyers
credit problems or errors
DCF investigations or DCF taking a child
disaster or flood relief
education that doesn't relate to special education or a disability
employment law including disputes over wages and workers’ rights, unless it relates to a disability
environmental law
grandparents’ rights
identity theft
insurance complaints
most personal injury cases or medical malpractice cases
Native American / Tribal law
pensions
preparing or filing your taxes
rent increases (unless you have subsidized housing)
renter rebate / renter credit
security deposits
Social Security Retirement
SSI and SSDI delays
trying to get Social Security or SSI — but we can give you advice if your benefits were reduced, ended or overpayed
suing someone in Small Claims Court or Superior Court
traffic violations
workers compensation
Unless your problem includes discrimination, we cannot help with:
contracts and suing to enforce a contract, like when selling a car — but we can help with assistive technology contracts
finding long-term housing
landlord access to your rental unit
real estate law — but we can help with foreclosures and tax sales
We cannot help:
if you are a landlord with a tenant problem, unless you have a low income and the tenant resides in the home where you live
with defending you in a criminal case (but we do represent victims of crime or abuse in criminal cases and Relief from Abuse cases)
with issues related to being in jail (incarcerated)
if you need help with a legal issue outside of Vermont, or
if you need legal help on behalf of a business you own or work for.
When you ask for our help
If you have a different kind of issue , contact us if you need help from Vermont Legal Aid and Legal Services Vermont. You must be a Vermont resident or have a legal issue in Vermont. We will reply as soon as we can.
Use the Legal Help Tool . Use our anonymous guide to finding legal information and fill out a form to ask for legal advice on problems that we might help with.
Explore our web pages . Choose from the menu of legal and health care topics.
Contact us and leave a message .
You may get the fastest response if you fill out our Legal Help Request Form at any time. If possible, include your email address and/or a phone number where you can get a text message. This will help us reach you.
Or, leave a message on our legal helpline at 1-800-889-2047 during these hours:
Monday: 8 - 1
Tuesday: 12:30 - 7
Wednesday: 8 - 1
Thursday: 12:30 - 7
Friday: 8 - 1
If you contact us today, most people should expect to hear from us within about 5 to 10 days.
Please look above to see if your problem is on the list of issues we cannot help with.
Please look at the information on our website at VTLawHelp.org to see if your questions are answered here.
If you have an urgent problem, please give us as much detail as possible, including important dates and deadlines.
Please do not leave a second message.
Look for a call back from a phone number that you may not recognize! Your caller ID might say 1-800-889-2047, Legal Services or VT Legal Aid.
We will call you back during regular business hours as soon as we can.
When you leave a message or use the online form:
Tell us your name and phone number.
Tell us the safest way to reach you and whether we can leave you a message, send an email or send a text.
Tell us the best time to reach you. We make callbacks from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except holidays.
Give us a description of the problem. Let us know if it’s an emergency.
Let us know if you received paperwork, court papers or a hearing date and what the dates are on those documents.
Keep those documents nearby so we can talk about them when we call you back.
We may not be able to call you back right away, so don't wait until the last minute to contact us about an emergency!
What if you don’t speak English?
العربية / Arabic
Bosanski / Bosnian
မြန်မာစာ / Burmese
دری / Dari
Español / Spanish
Français / French
Ikirundi / Kirundi
Kiswahili / Swahili
Mai-Mai / Maay Maay
官話 / 官话 / Mandarin
नेपाली/ Nepali
پښتو / Pashto
Soomaali / Somali
українська мова / Ukrainian
Tiếng Việt / Vietnamese
If you don’t speak English, ask us for an interpreter. We will provide an interpreter for free.
American Sign Language video about getting help
Go to descriptive transcript .
What to expect
We will ask you to answer some questions to see if you are eligible to speak with one of our lawyers. This is called the “intake” process.
For example, we will ask you questions about:
personal information such as address, telephone number, date of birth, Social Security number and how many people are in your household
the problem or issue you are calling about
your income and assets to determine if we can help you
All information you give us is protected by attorney/client privilege and will not be shared without your permission.
Our staff will decide how best to help you .
Depending on your situation and if you qualify for help, you may:
get legal advice over the telephone
get information sent to you by mail or email
get limited legal research
be represented by one of our lawyers or a volunteer lawyer
be directed to information to help you represent yourself in court
be referred to a private lawyer for advice or representation
be referred to other agencies that can help you
How are civil legal problems different from criminal issues?
Vermont Legal Aid, Legal Services Vermont and other civil legal services organizations help people with “civil legal matters.” Civil legal matters are lawsuits and other legal issues that are not about crimes.
For example, civil legal matters include most landlord/tenant and family court issues, bankruptcy, credit cards, unlawful discrimination, Reach Up and SSI benefits cases and similar issues.
On the other hand, Public Defenders and other legal services organizations represent people in criminal cases – when the government has accused a person of committing a crime.
Please note: We can’t help you with traffic violations. We can’t help you with most personal injury cases and real estate law. We also can’t defend you in a criminal case. (However, we can help if you need legal help due to being a victim of crime .)
Are you a victim of crime?
If you have a legal problem due to being a victim of crime or abuse, visit our Legal Help for Victims of Crime page to see how we can help.
Advice from lawyers
We hope this website will help you understand the law better. The information you find here is no substitute for meeting with a lawyer or paralegal, if you can, when you have a legal problem. We may be able to help some people find a lawyer who may work for free or low cost.
About this website
This website was created by and is maintained by Legal Services Vermont and Vermont Legal Aid. Legal Services Vermont and Vermont Legal Aid are nonprofit legal services law firms. The website is supported in part by a grant from the Legal Services Corporation.
Please use our feedback form to tell us how we can make our website better.
Other help
Legal clinics and workshops in Vermont
Family law clinics
Legal Services Vermont hosts occasional Family Law Clinics for low-income Vermonters.
Legal clinics for Vermont seniors 60+
Vermont Legal Aid hosts virtual legal advice clinics by phone. Vermont seniors — age 60 or more — can ask legal questions about any civil legal question. Ask about the next clinic when you contact us.
Legal clinics for Bennington County residents
Vermont Legal Aid is hosting a monthly legal clinic for residents of Bennington County.
Legal clinics for residents of the Northeast Kingdom
Vermont Legal Aid is hosting a monthly legal clinic for residents of Caledonia, Essex and Orleans Counties.
Chittenden County small claims clinic
An opportunity to speak with a lawyer about small claims court and to discuss your case. Not open to people representing businesses in collection cases. The lawyer does not provide legal advice or represent you in your case. Clinic is held online via Zoom on the first Tuesday of each month from 2 - 4 p.m. except for holidays. Email Edward D. Fitzpatrick, Esq. at efitzpatrick@bpflegal.com to ask for a Zoom invitation. If you are new to Zoom, mention that in your email and provide your phone number.
South Royalton Legal Clinic
Law students supervised by staff attorneys consult with and represent those who can’t afford a lawyer, in the following areas:
Veteran-specific issues dealing with VA disability, discharge upgrades, etc. Services available statewide.
Other civil matters for Veterans, including bankruptcy, housing, landlord/tenant, Social Security disability, and wills. For residents of Orange and Windsor counties only.
Divorces, parentage/custody issues, help for survivors of domestic violence, and help for other victims of crime. For residents of Orange and Windsor counties only.
Court-appointed representation of children in Family and Probate Courts in Orange, Washington and Windsor counties only.
Contact: 802-831-1500 or srlc@vermontlaw.edu
Disability rights
Disability Rights Vermont works to defend and advance the rights of people with disabilities and mental health issues. Call them at 1-800-834-7890.
Immigration
For help with immigration issues in Vermont, contact:
Vermont Asylum Assistance Project at 802-999-5654 and info@vaapvt.org .
Association of Africans Living in Vermont at 802-985-3106 and info@aalv-vt.org.
The Center for Justice Reform at Vermont Law and Graduate School at 802-540-0398 and CJRClinic@vermontlaw.edu .
The Vermont - New Hampshire Asylum Support Network
ACLU
ACLU of Vermont works to protect the constitutional rights of all Vermonters. Call them at 802-223-6304.
Small business law
Vermont Small Business Law Center works to empower small businesses and entrepreneurs with access to legal services.
Other clinics and projects in Vermont
You can view a list of other legal clinics and projects around Vermont at the bottom of this page on the Vermont Bar Association (VBA) website.
Other legal help
Help from other Vermont lawyers:
Ask legal questions through Vermont’s Free Legal Answers program
Vermont Bar Association lawyer referral
Vermont Association for Justice lawyer referral
Criminal Public Defenders
Vermont Judiciary Access and Resource Center (ARC)
The Vermont Judiciary Access and Resource Center is run by the Vermont courts. Their services are free and they serve the whole state. They do not give legal advice . See what they can help with, below.
Contact
Email: selfhelp@vtcourts.gov
Call: 802-879-1185 between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday - Friday. Closed on court holidays.
In-person support: In-person help by appointment at the Costello Courthouse at 32 Cherry Street in Burlington. Email or call to set a time.
Services
information about court processes
help with court forms
information about how to get the help of a lawyer
public computers for court-related use
workstation to attend a remote hearing
Case types
divorce
eviction
estates
sealing or expungement of criminal records
guardianship
name change
parentage
relief from abuse
small claims
stalking
traffic matters
other court issues
Updated: Sep 10, 2026
Print
Have you tried our anonymous guide to finding legal help? Try the Legal Help Tool !
News
Be Ready for Changes Coming to Medicaid!
Testers Wanted! Earn a Gift Card When You Test a New Online Legal Help Tool
Legal Advice Clinic for Bennington County Residents
Legal Advice Clinic for NEK Residents
NEW: No Callbacks for a List of Selected Legal Areas
Summer Heat, Air Conditioning and Rental Units
More News
Being evicted or sued for a debt? Take action. Don’t wait!
More Help
How We Can Help – Contact Us
Forms You Can Use
Help From Other Vermont Lawyers:
Ask legal questions through Vermont’s Free Legal Answers program
Vermont Bar Association lawyer referral
VT Association for Justice lawyer referral
Criminal Public Defenders
Legal Help for Active Military, Veterans & Their Families
Legal Problem in Another State