Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Safe Exit
Transgender Law Center
Transgender Law Center is the largest national trans-led organization advocating self-determination for all people. Since 2002 we&#8217;ve been organizing, assisting, informing and empowering thousands of individual community members towards a long-term, national, trans-led movement for liberation.
About us
Announcement
Transgender Law Center and Emergent Fund Announce $1 Million in Rapid Response Dollars for Trans-Led Organizing Through the Action for Transformation Fund
&#8220;Now more than ever, we must invest in the transformative power of trans-led organizing,” said Shelby Chestnut, Executive Director of Transgender Law Center.
Read more about the Action for Transformation Fund
Trans Agenda
Grounded in legal expertise and committed to racial justice, we employ a variety of community-driven strategies to keep transgender and gender nonconforming people alive, thriving, and fighting for liberation.
Learn more about the Trans Agenda
Transgender Launches the Play to Win Campaign
Our kids should be free to learn and thrive.
But the same politicians bullying our trans kids off of sports teams are rigging the rules for billionaires, making all but the wealthiest families fight for scraps. Let’s fully fund our schools and communities so all our kids, transgender or not, can pursue their dreams on the field and off.
Read more about Play to Win
Programs
Positively Trans
Transgender people living with HIV are capable of forming our own network, telling our own stories, and developing our own advocacy strategies – and TLC’s Positively Trans program is the proof.
Read More about Positively Trans
Disability Project
Housed at Transgender Law Center through a 2019 Soros Justice Fellowship, the Disability Project magnifies the leadership, collective power, and visibility of LGBTQ disabled/Deaf/ill constituents.
Read More about the Disability Project
Black Trans Circles
Black Trans Circles (BTC) develops the leadership of Black trans women in the South and Midwest through the creation of healing justice spaces to work through oppression-based trauma.
Read More about Black Trans Circles
Gender Justice Leadership Programs
TRUTH, a collaboration between Transgender Law Center and GSA Network, is a national trans and gender nonconforming youth leadership and storytelling program.
Read More about Gender Justice Leadership Programs
Get Help
From employment and housing discrimination to criminalization and violence, transgender people are often forced to engage with a legal system that wasn’t built for us. Even something as basic as correcting our identity documents to reflect who we truly are can be a confusing, overwhelming, and isolating process.
By maintaining a robust collection of resources and publications, TLC does our best to guide you through some of the more common legal challenges and questions transgender people encounter. If you can’t find an answer in our publications, our Legal Information Helpdesk is here to respond to your questions and refer you to other resources and members of our pro bono network for support.
Get Help
Legal
TLC has a long history of victories for the trans movement, from winning rights for trans workers nationwide in Macy v. Holder (EEOC 2012) to the first federal appellate court decision protecting trans students under federal statutory and constitutional law in Whitaker v. Kenosha Unified School District (7th Cir. 2017).
Legal Services Project
The Legal Services Project (LSP) utilizes the knowledge and power of community to equip trans people to assert their rights by sharing legal information and resources.
Read More about LSP
Litigation
TLC’s impact litigation team uses lawsuits and advocacy to fight the criminalization of trans lives, through victories in the courts, policy advocacy, and by raising the profile of issues affecting our communities.
Read More about Litigation
Resources
By maintaining a robust collection of resources and publications, TLC does our best to guide you through some of the more common legal challenges and questions transgender people encounter.
Read More about TLC Resources
Border Butterflies Project
Border Butterflies is a coordinated coalitional response to the crisis of LGBTQ+ asylum seekers at the U.S. southern border.
Read More about the Border Butterflies Project
Support TLC
Transgender Law Center appreciates your support to keep trans and gender nonconforming people alive, thriving, and fighting for liberation. By donating, volunteering, and participating in events, you are playing a critical role in our work for trans liberation.
Donate
Volunteer
Other Ways to Give
Explore more
Get Help
The Legal Information Helpdesk provides basic information about laws and policies in the United States that affect transgender people across many areas, including employment, health care, housing, civil rights, immigration, prisoners’ rights, and identity document changes.
Get Help
Loading...