Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Minnesota Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes, A hearing will be scheduled in which you will be required to bring two witnesses to verify your identity. There is no publication requirement.
Name Change (Minor): Yes. A hearing will be scheduled in which you will be required to bring two witnesses to verify your identity. Both parents listed on your birth certificate will need to be notified of your name change. There is no publication requirement unless you do not know the location of a parent listed on your birth certificate.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name is required to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes. A physician's letter or a court order for change of gender marker is required to make this amendment.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name is required to make this change.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes. Can self-identify. Does not require medical documentation or a court order. No additional forms are needed. Indicate if you would like your DL/ID to display F, M, or X when you apply for a new license.
Restrictions Based on Prior Criminal Convictions: Yes. If incarcerated, can only file a name change once and must show a constitutional right will be denied in order to waive the filing fee.
Minnesota Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Minnesota , you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the district court . You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Any information in your name change file will be publicly accessible unless the court determines that the name change is made in connection with participation in a victim or witness protection program.
To make a name change request, you must have been living in Minnesota for at least 6 months. Further instructions and information about the name change process here .
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the NAM102: Application for Name Change .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
NAM102: Application for Name Change
NAM103: Criminal History Check Release
NAM107: Proposed Order Granting Name Change
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver or IFP. More instructions are available here . Note Hennepin County has a separate guide .
Step 3: Attend Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend. You will need to bring two witnesses to the hearing who can verify your identity. The witness must have known you for at least one year and can be related to you.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A $14.00 fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. A list is provided by the Minnesota Courts— Notice to Persons who have had their Name Changed . This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
Additionally, if you have a criminal history, you must report the name change to Bureau of Apprehension within ten days or will be guilty of a gross misdemeanor. The judge should provide instructions on providing notice. If not, ask on how to provide notice.
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Minnesota Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find the district court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Any information in your name change file will be publicly accessible unless the court determines that the name change is made in connection with participation in a victim or witness protection program.
To make a name change request, you must have been living in Minnesota for at least 6 months. Further instructions and information about the name change process here .
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete NAM202: Application for Name Change of a Minor .
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
If you are 14 years of age or older, you will have to sign the application as well.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
NAM202: Application for Name Change of a Minor
NAM203: Criminal History Check Release of a Minor (only if you are 10 years of age or older)
NAM208: Proposed Order Granting Minor Name Change
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver or IFP. More instructions are available here .
Step 3: Parental Notification
The parents listed on your birth certificate must be notified of your name change request. The only exceptions are if a parent is deceased, has parental rights terminated by court order (not simply sole custody granted to the other parent), or if only one parent is listed on the birth certificate and a court has not declared another person to be a parent.
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary and you can proceed to the next step.
If a known legal parent does not sign the petition, they will still need to be notified through the serving process. Inquire with your county court clerk which method of service (either certified mail or personal service) is required.
If you are unable to locate the non-petitioning parent, you will need to publish notice of your requested name change in a newspaper that circulates in the non-petitioning parent’s last known address or file for service by alternative means.
More information is available on parental notice of a minor’s requested name change on page 4 of the instruction packet . Please contact your local court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation for your county.
Step 4: Attend Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you and your petitioning guardian. will be required to attend. You will need to bring the minor’s birth certificate as well as two witnesses, in addition to your petitioning guardian, to the hearing who can verify your identity. Witnesses may be relatives who have known the applicant for at least one year. If both parents are present, only one other witness will need to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A $14.00 fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. A list is provided by the Minnesota Courts— Notice to Persons who have had their Name Changed . This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
Additionally, if you have a criminal history, you must report the name change to Bureau of Apprehension within ten days or will be guilty of a gross misdemeanor. The judge should provide instructions on providing notice. If not, ask on how to provide notice.
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Minnesota Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Minnesota Department of Health will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments and a physician's letter or court order for gender marker amendments.
When Amending the Name Only
When a name is amended, the new birth certificate will note what part of the name was changed, the date of amendment, and which supporting document was provided.
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Birth Record Amendment Request
A certified copy of a court order for change of name
The $40.00 amendment fee
The $26.00 certificate fee. There is an additional $19.00 fee for multiple copies.
Please note that you will need to have the application notarized before submitting. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Minnesota will issue a new birth certificate upon receipt of a letter from a physician confirming appropriate clinical treatment for gender transition or a court order for gender change. The registrar will issue a replacement birth certificate, and the prior birth certificate shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed except pursuant to court order.
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Birth Record Amendment Request
A physician letter OR a court order that specifically directs amendment of the subject's sex on the birth record
The $40.00 amendment fee
The $26.00 certificate fee. There is an additional $19.00 fee for multiple copies.
A certified copy of court order for change of name (if you wish to simultaneously update your name)
Please note that you will need to have the application notarized before submitting. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Minnesota , you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Minnesota Office of Vital Records.
Mailing address:
Minnesota Department of Health
Office of Vital Records
PO Box 64499, St. Paul, MN 55164-0499
If you are no longer a Minnesota resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Minnesota, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Minnesota Office of Vital Records will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Minnesota, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Office of Vital Records.
Phone: (651) 201-5970
Email: health.vitalrecords@state.mn.us
Minnesota Driver's License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on a Minnesota driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DVS. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Minnesota residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A list of acceptable documentation is available here .
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Minnesota Driver and Vehicle Services will issue an M, F, or X on a license or state ID upon request of the individual. No medical or additional documentation is required.
In order to update the gender marker, the applicant must indicate the appropriate marker of M, F, or X on the application or the renewal. You can indicate the marker on their online application .
You will need to make an in-person appointment with the DVS. You can schedule an appointment here . You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Minnesota residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A certified copy of your order of name change (if you wish to update your name simultaneously)
A list of acceptable documentation is available here .
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your DVS at (651)_297-3298.
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Minnesota Courts —has prepared detailed self-help instructions to guide you through the name change process. You can contact your county court clerk or the Self-Help Center for additional information.
OutFront Minnesota —works to empower and protect the LGBTQ community in Minnesota. They have compiled an in-depth list of LGBTQ-friendly lawyers.
Phone: (612) 822.0127
Email: access@outfront.org
Volunteer Lawyers Network: Trans/Queer Legal Clinic —provides 15-20 minutes of legal advice on name and gender marker changes, plus general legal advice and referrals. Complete the form to set up an appointment. They also provide an additional form for identity document financial assistance.
Minnesota Legislature Code Citations
General Requirements, Name Changes— Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 259.10-259.13
Amendment and Correction of Vital Records— Minn. Stat. Ann. §§ 144.2181
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe