Skip to content
Get in gear! Cycling for one·n·ten, November 7
Learn more & register here! 🚲🌈
Downtown Phoenix Youth Center
Find a safe space, supportive community, and fun programs where LGBTQ+ youth can thrive in the heart of Downtown Phoenix.
1101 N Central Avenue, Suite 104, Phoenix AZ 85004
Get directions
602-480-1566
Monday through Friday, 3:00pm - 7:00pm
Gender affirming clothing closet
Building confidence one outfit at a time. The Gender Affirming Clothing Closet offers free clothing for LGBTQ+ youth to express themselves authentically.
Variety of programs
From LGBTQ+ Book Club and drag mentorship to wellness collaboratives and experiential art projects and everything in between, our programs have something for everyone!
Support & Resources
Life may throw a curveball, but you don’t have to face it alone. one·n·ten can help weave a safety net of support and resources to help you navigate life’s challenges.
one·n·ten has given me a space to be myself and make new friends. I attended Spark Schools at one·n·ten this year and the staff made it a safe environment for all of us. one·n·ten has also given me knowledge about the community and meeting people who had different stories than mine letting me learn more.
Ash, 15, He/Him
Spark Community School
A safe inclusive learning space for LGBTQ+ youth.
Personalized learning
Inclusive environment
Empowerment & growth
Spark Community School breaks the mold with individualized curriculum and a supportive environment where LGBTQ+ youth can be themselves and excel academically.
Daily drop-in programs
Hang out, connect, be yourself.
Creative exploration
Social connection
Safe space & support
one·n·ten’s daily drop-in programs provide a fun and welcoming space for LGBTQ+ youth to connect, explore creative outlets, and find support – all in the same day!
Don’t miss out! Check out our upcoming programs & events.
Join us! We’ve got something for everyone.
Full programs calendar
New youth welcome meeting
Full programs calendar
New youth welcome meeting
September 23, 2026
Parsons Center
Dance Class!
Parsons Center
Craft Night: Canvas Swapping
September 24, 2026
Parsons Center
Health Jeopardy & Pizza (Trans, Non Binary, and Gender Expansive Group)
September 25, 2026
Parsons Center
Manifesting 101
div]:max-w-3xl w-full py-20">
Get connected to programs & services at the Downtown Phoenix Youth Center.
Contact us
Sign up to get all of our updates
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Name
First
Last
Email (Required)
Submit