Skip to content
Medical Care
Corktown Health provides both primary and HIV medical care to our community.
Here to Serve
The following is a list of specific services our medical team provides:
HIV Care
LGBTQ+ Primary Care
Breast & Cervical Cancer Screening
Sexual Health Services (HIV and STI testing)
Geriatric Services
Gender Affirming Care (Hormone Therapy)
Immunizations
HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) and Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP)
340b Drug Pricing Program
Telehealth
Types of Insurance Accepted
We take various types of insurance. The following is a list of insurances our clinic currently accepts:
Aetna
Aetna Better Health
Blue Cross Blue Shield
Blue Care Network
Blue Cross Complete
Cigna
HAP
Humana
McLaren
Medicaid
Medicare
Meridian
Molina
Priority Health
Total Health Care
United Health Care
Keep in mind that we are constantly accepting new insurance plans. Please contact us today at (313) 832-3300 to find out if we take your specific insurance. If you do not have insurance, we can assist you in signing up today. We also offer sliding scale fees. Click the button below to download our Sliding Fee Application, or contact us today to learn more.
Sliding Fee Application
Resources
Prevention
HIV STD Hotline
(800) 872-2437
HIVinfo.NIH.gov
hivinfo.nih.gov
(800) 448-0440
HIV Source
The Collection of HIV Links and Resources: hivinfo.nih.gov &#8211; pdf
MDHHS nPEP Guidance
www.michigan.gov &#8211; pdf
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
HIV Basics: www.cdc.gov/hiv
PleasePrEPme.org
www.pleaseprepme.org
TheBody.com
www.thebody.com
MDHHS HIV and STIs in Michigan
www.michigan.gov/mdhhs
HIV, Obesity and Hypertension
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention: www.cdc.gov/dhdsp
High Blood Pressure: www.cdc.gov/bloodpressure
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
High Blood Pressure: www.nhlbi.nih.gov
DASH Eating Plan: www.nhlbi.nih.gov
American Heart Association
High Blood Pressure: www.heart.org
Sodium: www.heart.org
American Medical Association
The 7-step self-measured blood pressure (SMBP) quick guide: www.amaassn.org
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services
Healthy Hearts: www.michigan.gov/mdhhs
Preventing Obesity and Hypertension Among People Living with HIV: www.michigan.gov/mdhhs
Frequently Asked Questions
What type of services does the clinic provide?
We offer primary care, HIV care, breast and cervical cancer screening, senior care, gender affirming care and much more.
At what age do you start seeing patients?
Primarily 18 years of age. However, we may also see patients as young as 16 years old.
Are you taking new patients?
Yes, we are always accepting new patients.
How do I get my medications delivered to me?
Patients can use pharmacy delivery services, such as Crown, CVS and Albertsons. Contact us at (313) 832-3300 for additional questions on how to sign up.
For questions or more information
Contact the Medical Care Department
By Phone
By Email