Skip to content
ID Card
Replacement
Replacement ID Card
You would need a replacement ID card for a name/address change, or a lost/stolen ID card, if your expiration date is more than six months from now.
Expiration Date
ID cards are valid for five years from the date of issuance, regardless if you are replacing or renewing.
Homeless
If you have written verification of homelessness , you may qualify for a free ID card.
Surrender Utah driver license for ID card
If you no longer qualify for a driver license or choose to stop driving permanently, the Driver License Division can mail you a free identification card. This is a one-time offer. To be eligible, you must have a regular Utah driver license that is not suspended or revoked, and you have current identity information and a photo taken within the last eight years. You can check eligibility by calling our customer service at 801.965.4437 or toll free 888.353.4224.
STEPS
Gather Your Documents For Your Replacement ID Card:
Current Utah ID card. If your document is lost or stolen, please provide at least one item from this Required Documents page to verify your identity. If you have filed a police report, bring it with you.
Address verification (2) if you have moved from your last known address on file.
If you submit your address change online prior to scheduling your appointment, address verification will not be required.
&#x25b8; Has your name changed? If you were recently married/divorced, or the name on your driver license or ID card doesn't match the name on your birth certificate, amended birth certificate, or passport, you'll need legal documentation to explain the difference.
These documents could be:
A certified marriage certificate from the state
A divorce decree
An updated passport
A new birth certificate
Adoption papers
A citizenship or naturalization certificate
Court papers showing the name change, sealed by the court
Submit Application and Schedule Appointment:
You will need to schedule an appointment to visit a Driver License office to complete the process of replacing your Utah ID card.
Apply for ID Card Replacement
(opens in a new tab)
Arrive For Your Appointment:
Have your appointment confirmation number ready to check in at the front desk.
Take a photo.
Take a number.
Present documents to the examiner.
Pay the non-refundable fee of $23.00.
When Do I Get My ID Card?
A temporary identification card will be issued on the same day.
The completed identification card will be mailed to you in approximately 4-6 weeks.
Attention: By law, you may not possess more than one REAL ID-compliant certificate at a time (e.g., a Utah ID card and a Colorado license.)
Translate »
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<
<