0
Affordable Care for All
Health care should be affordable—that’s why we offer a sliding fee discount program. The amount you pay for your health care will always fit your budget. ANHC is your health care home, no matter your financial status.
About the Sliding Fee Discount Program
Our Sliding Fee Discount Program reduces the cost of health care for eligible patients. Your eligibility for the program and the amount of your discount are based on household size and annual income.
All patients are encouraged to apply, even if you have health insurance, including Medicaid. Medicaid does not pay for all services. If you have insurance and are eligible for the sliding fee discount, your discount will apply to charges that your insurance does not pay. If you do not have insurance and are eligible for the sliding fee discount, your discount will apply to all the costs of care you receive at ANHC.
Resources
Discount Estimate
Estimate your sliding fee discount using the Sliding Fee Discount chart:
Sliding Fee Discount Chart (English PDF) (Rev. 1/2026)
Sliding Fee Discount Chart (Spanish PDF) (Rev. 1/2025)
Application
To apply for the Sliding Fee Discount Program, please complete an application:
For an online form, text “ TEXT ME “ to 907-743-7200 .
Sliding Fee Discount Application (English PDF) (Rev. 12/2025)
Sliding Fee Discount Application (Spanish PDF) (Rev. 12/2025)
Sliding Fee Discount Application (Tagalog PDF) (Rev. 4/2025)
Sliding Fee Discount Application (Samoan PDF) (Rev. 4/2025)
If you completed a paper form, return the completed copy in person or by mail. Our physical/mailing address is 4951 Business Park Blvd., Anchorage, AK 99503.
Questions?
Please call or text “ TEXT ME ” to 907-743-7200 during normal business hours.
Frequently Asked Questions
When Do I Apply or Reapply For the Sliding Fee Discount?
You should complete a new sliding fee discount application:
If you’re a new patient at ANHC.
After a change in your household size or annual income.
Before your discount expires. Your sliding fee discount is only valid for one year (if you submitted documentation) or six months (if you completed a self-declaration).
What Services Eligible For the Sliding Fee Discount?
The sliding fee discount applies to all services provided directly by ANHC, including prescription medications from ANHC’s pharmacy.
What Services That May NOT Be Eligible For the Sliding Fee Discount?
Your sliding fee discount may not apply to services you receive from outside providers or clinics.
Your sliding fee discount may not apply to the fee to process specimens at an outside lab (for example, Labcorp or Quest Diagnostics) even if the sample was taken at ANHC. The outside lab will bill you directly.
What is Considered a Household?
A household includes everyone who shares resources and depends on the same income, unless on a temporary basis. Your household members may or may not be related to you. They may or may not live with you.
These arrangements are considered one household:
Both related and unrelated individuals who share resources and depend on the same income.
Both married and unmarried individuals who share resources and depend on the same income.
An adult child (19 years old and older) who is claimed as a dependent on a parent or guardian’s tax return, even if they do not share resources or depend on the same income.
These arrangements are considered separate households:
Adult children (individuals 19 years old or older) who are not claimed as a dependent on a parent or guardian’s tax return, do not share resources, and do not depend on the same income.
Anyone (related or unrelated) living together on a temporary basis.
What is Considered Income?
Income includes but is not limited to:
Salary
Wages
Unemployment compensation
Worker’s compensation
Social Security
Supplemental Security income
Public assistance
Veterans’ benefits
Survivor benefits
Pension or retirement income
Interest
Dividends
Rents
Royalties
Income from estates
Trust fund income
Alaska Permanent Fund Dividend.
What is Considered Proof of Income?
You must provide proof of all income for everyone in your household. The proof of income must show the pre-tax total.
Proof of income includes:
Income tax return: Signed copy of your most recent income tax return showing your adjusted gross income and supporting schedules for business income and/or investments.
Paystubs: One (1) month of pay stubs showing your gross income.
Bank statements
Employer letter: Letter from your employer on company letterhead stating your average hours per week and rate of pay. (Acceptable only if you do not have a recent pay stub. You must also provide employer contact information.)
Self-employment ledger or documentation of income and expenses
Unemployment benefits letter: Paperwork proving unemployment status and the amount of unemployment compensation you receive.
Workers’ compensation benefits letter
Rental income documentation
Retirement income statements
Social Security Income statements
Benefits verification letter:
SSA, SSI, and/or SSDI
Adult Public Assistance
Disability
Medicaid
Veterans Administration
Social service agency (food stamps, Alaska Housing, etc.)
Child support: If you pay child support.
If you are unemployed and/or do not have any source of verifiable income, please provide an explanation of the circumstances on the Self-Declaration of Income form.
What is a Temporary Self-Declaration of Income?
If you do not have proof of income for yourself or for someone else in your household who earns income, you may complete a temporary Self-Declaration of Income form. This temporary discount is valid for 30 days. You must provide proof of household income within 30 days to continue to receive the discount. You may only use the temporary Self-Declaration of Income form once every twelve months.
If you are unable to provide proof of income within 30 days, ask an ANHC staff member if a six-month selfdeclaration of income is an option for you.
Note: If you provide false information, you will not be eligible for the Sliding Fee Discount Program. This Sliding Fee Discount Application is subject to independent verification by the ANHC Finance Office, which may result in a determination that is different than the one provided on the current date.
New Patient Information
Sliding Fee Discount Program
Health Insurance Assistance
COVID-19 Information
Billing Information
Prices of Common Services
Telehealth
Forms
Provide Feedback
Contact Us