Go to Content
Gender-Affirming Care in Portland, ME
Planned Parenthood is committed to supporting the health and well-being of our trans and nonbinary patients. We will continue to provide gender-affirming care whenever and however we can under the law. We know just how important it is.
Gender-affirming care services are available at Portland Health Center.
Contact the health center by booking an appointment or calling for more information.
Gender-Affirming Services
Hormone therapy
Surgery referrals
Initial Appointment
Follow-up Appointment
Transition support (legal, social)
Education
Resources
Additional Services
We are proud to offer gender-affirming hormone therapy (GAHT). At our health centers in Maine, GAHT is offered to people 16 years of age and older. 16 and 17-year-olds will need parental consent.
What to Expect At Your Appointment: We’ll have a conversation about your gender identity and medical history, and do lab work to determine if GAHT is safe for you. We’ll also discuss medication risks and benefits, timeline for physical changes, and give you a prescription if it’s right for you. You will need to come back for follow-up appointments.
Insurance & Special Programs: We welcome most insurance. Our Gender-Affirming Care Fund provides funding to patients who may not be able to afford their services. Call 866-476-1321 to learn more.
Ready to schedule your appointment?
Ready to make an appointment?
207-797-8881
Book Online
Learn More about Gender-Affirming Services
Availability
By appointment only
During all business hours
Payment Information
Please contact this health center for Gender-Affirming Care pricing information.
Insurance information
Some services may be covered by your insurance. If you want to use your insurance, please be sure to have your insurance information at the time of your visit.
If you are uninsured, you may be eligible to receive financial assistance for your procedure.
You can confidentially find out if you qualify by calling us at (207) 797-8881 .
If you are eligible for financial assistance you may be asked to bring documentation with you to the health center.
You must pay on the day of your appointment unless you’ve made other arrangements.
443 Congress Street, 2nd Floor
Portland ,
ME
04101
USA
Get Directions
HOURS
Retrieving hours...
Day
Hours
Note
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Closed
207-797-8881
Book Online
Operated by Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
Operated by Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
In-person:
Appointments directly at the clinic
Telehealth:
Remote care through phone/video
Abortion
Birth Control
Emergency Contraception (Morning-After Pill)
Gender-Affirming Care
HIV Services
Mental Health
Pregnancy Testing and Planning
Sexual and Reproductive Concerns
STD Testing and Treatment
Vaccines
Wellness and Preventive Care
Call 207-797-8881 to book your appointment. Health center staff can also answer any questions you may have.
Our scheduling team is available to speak with you Monday - Friday, from 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM. Call 1-866-476-1321.
Please note, we have 2 hour validated parking at the Elm Street Garage. For more parking options, please contact health center staff.
Holidays and Closures
We're closed:
New Year&#x27;s Day,
Memorial Day,
Juneteenth,
Independence Day,
Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day,
Christmas Eve,
Christmas Day and
Day after Christmas
This health center is operated by Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
Pricing and/or insurance information are estimates made in good faith
and are subject to change at any time. This health center supports
and welcomes all people regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity
or biological sex, including but not limited to lesbian, gay, bisexual,
queer, questioning, and intersex clients. The information provided on
this site is for informational purposes and does not constitute medical
or legal advice.
Planned Parenthood of Northern New England is a tax-exempt 501(c)(3) charitable organization.
For further information, please refer to our Terms of Use .
&copy; Planned Parenthood of Northern New England
Learn About This Affiliate
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all