Senate Engrossed
gender transition; prohibitions; public monies
(now:
irreversible gender reassignment surgery; minors)
State of
Arizona
Senate
Fifty-fifth
Legislature
Second Regular
Session
2022
CHAPTER
104
SENATE BILL 1138
An Act
amending
title 32, chapter 32, article 1, Arizona Revised Statutes, by adding section
32-3230; relating to health care.
(TEXT OF BILL BEGINS ON NEXT PAGE)
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Arizona:
Section 1. Title 32, chapter 32, article 1,
Arizona Revised Statutes, is amended by adding section 32-3230, to read:
START_STATUTE 32-3230. Prohibition of irreversible gender reassignment surgery for
minors; definitions
A. A physician may not provide
irreversible gender reassignment surgery to any individual who is under
eighteen years of age.
B. A physician may provide any of the
following to an individual who is under eighteen years of age:
1. Services to an individual born
with a medically verifiable disorder of sex development, including an
individual with external biological sex characteristics that are irresolvably
ambiguous, such as being born with forty-six XX chromosomes with virilization
or forty-six XY chromosomes with undervirilization or having both ovarian
and testicular tissue.
2. Services provided when a physician
has otherwise diagnosed a disorder of sexual development and has determined through
genetic or biochemical testing that the individual does not have normal sex
chromosome structure, sex steroid hormone production or sex steroid hormone
action.
3. The treatment of any infection,
injury, disease or disorder that has been caused by or exacerbated by the
performance of gender transition procedures, whether or not the gender
transition procedure was performed in accordance with state and federal law.
4. Any procedure undertaken because
the individual suffers from a physical disorder, physical injury or physical
illness that would, as certified by a physician, place the individual in
imminent danger of death or impairment of major bodily function unless surgery
is performed.
C. for the purposes of this section:
1. "Biological sex" means
the biological indication of male and female in the context of reproductive
potential or capacity, such as sex chromosomes, naturally occurring sex
hormones, gonads and nonambiguous internal and external genitalia present at
birth, without regard to an individual's psychological, chosen or subjective
experience of gender.
2. "Gender" means the
psychological, behavioral, social and cultural aspects of being male or female.
3. "Gender transition"
means the process in which a person goes from identifying with and living as a
gender that corresponds to the person's biological sex to identifying with and
living as a gender different from the person's biological sex and may involve
social, legal or physical changes.
4. "irreversible gender
reassignment surgery" means a medical procedure performed for the purpose
of assisting an individual with a gender transition, including any of the
following:
( a ) penectomy,
orchiectomy, vaginoplasty, clitoroplasty or vulvoplasty for biologically male
patients or hysterectomy or ovariectomy for biologically female patients.
( b ) metoidioplasty,
phalloplasty, vaginectomy, scrotoplasty or implantation of erection or
testicular prostheses for biologically female patients.
( c ) Augmentation
mammoplasty for biologically male patients and subcutaneous mastectomy for
female patients.
5. "Physician" means a
person who is licensed pursuant to chapter 13 or 17 of this title. END_STATUTE
Sec. 2. Effective date
This act is effective from and after March 31, 2023.
APPROVED BY THE GOVERNOR MARCH 30, 2022.
FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE MARCH 30, 2022.