Access to this site and the information assets of this site are for official use only. Unauthorized access to this site and its information assets is prohibited. Unauthorized access to this site and misuse of its information assets may be prosecuted under Arkansas State statutes regarding the use of individually identifiable personal health information (PHI) and The United States regulations and laws regarding the use of individually identifiable personal health information (PHI). Successful prosecution of misuse of PHI may include imprisonment and/or financial sanctions as set forth in Standards for Privacy of Individual Health Information 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164. For further security and privacy information click here
This page contains links to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.
Ok
Before you set up an account, we need to ask you some questions. This will help you know if you should apply for benefits on this site or for health insurance on HealthCare.gov.
Ok
The username or password is incorrect. Please retype the username and password, or sign up if you haven't already done so.
Your account has been locked due to multiple incorrect login attempts. You can try again in 30 minutes. If you continue to face issues try resetting your password by clicking on ?Forgot password?.
Your case visibility account has been disabled because of inactivity. Click here to view alternate account management instructions to re-activate your account.
User disabled with a temporary password.
Your application visibility account has been disabled because of inactivity. Click here to re-activate your account.
Your case visibility account has been disabled because of inactivity. Click here to re-activate your account. You need to pass a few authentication questions.
Login to your account
User name
The value you typed in is too short. It must be at least 6 characters
You must fill this out.
Password
The value you typed in is too short. It must be at least 4 characters
You must fill this out.
Remember me
Show password
Log in
Forgot password?
Forgot user name?
Don't have an account?
Create a new account
Skip to main content
You have already answered the required questions.
If you want to start the questions over, go back to the home page of Access Arkansas.
Ok
For your convenience, the Help Center will open in a new window.
Cancel
Continue
Contact Us
You can contact Department of Human Services (DHS) by calling 1-855-372-1084. If you cannot call 1-855-372-1084, go to a local DHS office .
For English, TTY or TDD 1-800-285-1131
For Spanish, TTY or TDD 1-866-656-1842
For Marshallese, TTY or TDD 1-479-365-6625
For privacy concerns or complaints, please contact the DHS Privacy Office at DHSPrivacyInvestigator@dhs.arkansas.gov or call 1-855-283-0835
Close
You are now being assisted by () at
You are now being assisted by . Log Out
Learn
Apply
Manage
Learn
About benefit
programs
Apply
For new benefits
Manage
Your account or
applications
Learn about benefit programs
On Access Arkansas, you can manage your case, report changes, upload documents DHS needs, and apply for:
Health Care to help pay for doctor visits, medications, and other health services you get in facilities or in your community.
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits to help buy food at participating stores
Transitional Employment Assistance (TEA) benefits to help eligible families pay
for basic needs
Apply Now
Health Care
Medicaid, for those who are eligible, may help pay medical bills, doctor's visits, services in the home and facilities, and Medicare premiums.
DHS offers health care to the following groups of people:
Children under age 19
Adults age 19 - 64
Adults who are older, blind, or have a disability
Children who are blind or have a disability
Residents of a nursing home or assisted living facility
Apply Now
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
SNAP benefits can help eligible households buy healthy food from participating stores each month.
To decide if you can get SNAP benefits, DHS will ask you:
How many people live in your home
The amount of money you make
What things you own
Some SNAP clients may have to do work or other activities to be eligible for benefits. Access Arkansas lets you apply and report information for your benefits all in one
place.
Apply Now
Transitional Employment Assistance (TEA)
TEA offers short-term financial benefits to help families with limited incomes meet
basic needs and improve their earning ability.
Households must have a child under 18 years old living in the home and meet other requirements. Eligible families may qualify to get:
Money to help pay bills
Job training
Childcare assistance
Transportation assistance
Apply Now
Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (DSNAP)
Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (D-SNAP) provides food assistance to low-income households with food loss or damage caused by a natural disaster.
Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (D-SNAP) provides food assistance to low-income households with damage caused by a natural disaster.
People residing in the following counties can apply:
A disaster has been declared in more than 10 counties
{{county}}
Click here for more details
Apply Now
previous
next
Apply online and manage your benefits any time
Apply for benefits
Apply online so you can have access to your account at any time. You can start, save, and go back to your online application.
Tips when applying for benefits
Be ready to answer questions about everyone applying such as:
Social Security number and birth date
Citizenship or immigration status
Money from jobs and other sources
The value of cars and other property
How much you pay for bills
Apply Now
Quick access to your account and applications
Your account
Check the status of your benefits, make changes, and more.
Log In
Create an account
Create an account to apply for benefits.
If you applied using a paper application, you can
create an account to check the status of your application, make changes,
and more.
Create an Account
State benefit programs help people with little
or no money who are in need
Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (D-SNAP)
Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (D-SNAP) provides food assistance to low-income households with food loss or damage caused by a natural disaster.
Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (D-SNAP) provides food assistance to low-income households with damage caused by a natural disaster.
Learn More
Am I Eligible?
See if you qualify for 30 programs including, ARHOME, Arkids First, SNAP, Childcare Assistance, Pregnant Woman Coverage, and others.
Answer Screening Questions
Need to Choose an
ARHOME Plan?
ARHOME is the new program that takes the place of Arkansas Works.If you have been approved for the ARHOME Health Care program and need to choose a health care plan, click below.
Find Resources
Health Care
Helps cover visit to doctors, dentists, medicine, and more through programs including ARKids, ARChoices, and ARHOME.
Learn More
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
Offers eligible clients help buying food at participating stores
Learn More
Transitional Employment Assistance(TEA)
Helps families with transitional financial assistance
Learn More
Summer Electronic Benefit Transfer Program (SEBT)
Allows families to purchase food for eligibile children during the summer months
Learn More
Need More Help?
Here you can find:
Career education
Volunteer opportunities
Health centers and services
Other resources in your area
Find Resources
Community Partners
Community Partners are community organizations that help Arkansans apply for and manage their benefits. Benefits include SNAP, TEA and Health Care benefits.
Community Partner Login
Access to this site and the information assets of this site are for official use only. Unauthorized access to
this site and its information assets is prohibited. Unauthorized access to this site and misuse of its information
assets may be prosecuted under Arkansas State statutes regarding the use of individually identifiable personal health
information (PHI) and the United States regulations and laws regarding the use of individually identifiable personal
health information (PHI). Successful prosecution of misuse of PHI may include imprisonment and/or financial
sanctions as set forth in Standards for Privacy of Individual Health Information 45 CFR Parts 160 and 164.
For further security and privacy information click here
This page contains links to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.
Ok
Your session has ended. To start a new session, you must close the browser window. You
will need to login again.
Ok
Before you set up an account, we need to ask you some questions. This will help you know if
you should apply for benefits on this site or for health insurance on HealthCare.gov.
Ok
Warning
Before you go back, tell us if you want to save or discard what you have entered.
Discard
Save
Warning
The info you entered on this page will not be saved if you change languages now.
To keep working on this page without changing languages, click Stay On Page.
To change languages and start over on this page, click Change Language.
Change Language
Stay On Page
Warning
If you answer more questions on your application it could speed up the process and get you benefits more quickly.
We'll have to contact you if we need more information.
Do you want to continue to 'Check answers and send'?
YES
NO
Partner Login
Select which type of partner you are to be taken to your start page.
I am a:
COMMUNITY PARTNER
QUALIFIED HOSPITAL / QUALIFIED ENTITY