top of page
Join us at New Haven Pride: October 3rd!
Greater New Haven's
LGBTQ+ Community Center
Our Mission
The New Haven Pride Center works to build a stronger, healthier, and more connected LGBTQ+ community by providing programs, services, education, advocacy, and opportunities for meaningful connection.
Update: A Letter to the
New Haven Community
The New Haven Pride Center is going through some big changes. We got ourselves into a pretty big financial mess a few years ago, and we're just now finding our way out. After closing due to lack of funding in February 2026, and then mounting a truly historic fundraising campaign to reopen our doors in April, we are in the process of restoring the New Haven Pride Center as a queer home for all people!
​
Importantly, we want to thank the community for sticking with us through thick and thin. In addition to the lifesaving services we've offered to many of you, our instability over the past few years has put a burden on others, including staff, volunteers, community partners, and funders. These have been difficult times and circumstances to navigate, and we thank all of our stakeholders for your patience and grace.
And with new leadership at all levels (staff & board), new organizational structure, and new vision, we commit to rebuilding the Center as a safe, joyful, and liberating place for everyone.
​
To be clear, it's going to take us a while to get fully up and running again. We have limited staff at the moment and we're working overtime on the daily. The amount of work to be done around here is no joke. So, to the extent possible, please extend your patience with us a bit longer as we get the Pride Center humming again. We expect to be really revving our engines by the New Year!
Please join us in this mission!
If you'd like to volunteer with the Pride Center, please fill out this form and let us know how you'd like to chip in! And if you'd like to donate, don't hesitate ! After all, spreading joy & liberation requires that the lights stay on and the floors get swept.
Thank you!
Chris Freimuth
Acting Executive Director
bottom of page