Skip to main content
Articles in this section
How do I get my certificate? (In Person, Local County Health Department, Mail, or Online)
Identification Requirements
Entitlement Guidelines
I am the legal guardian of a child. May I request their birth certificate?
May I pick up a copy of a certificate for someone else?
I have been told that I need to get an apostille on my certificate. How do I do that?
In Person
Where:
When:
Tennessee Vital Records
1st Floor, Andrew Johnson Tower
710 James Robertson Parkway
Nashville, TN 37243
Vital Records Entrance is on the
Rosa Parks Blvd. side of the building.
Office Hours:
Monday - Friday 8:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M.
Lobby Hours:
Monday - Friday 8:00 A.M. - 4:00 P.M.
Parking is located on Rev. Kelly M Smith Way
off Rosa Parks Blvd.
Office of Vital Records
IF PAYING WITH CASH, CHECK, CREDIT/DEBIT CARD, OR MONEY ORDER
You have the option to fill out a paper order form and present proper identification at the Customer Service Window. If you are not a qualified applicant, you will need to support your entitlement to the record requested at the time your application is submitted or have a qualified applicant submit the application. Order forms are located on the counter to your left as you enter our office. We accept cash, check, credit/debit cards or money orders for our fees at our customer service window.
You do not need an appointment to obtain a certified copy of a record when applying in person.
Local County Health Department
With the Introduction of our electronic issuance system, all county health departments can issue any birth or death certificates that have been registered statewide with our office. You will no longer have to travel to the county where the birth or death occurred. Identification will be required at the time of submission of your application and fees payable. IF you are not a qualified applicant, (parent, child, or spouse), you will also need to present any documents to support your right to the certificate. Entitlement documents can include custody orders, letters of testamentary, insurance policies denoting the beneficiaries, etc.
By Mail
What to include:
1. The completed and signed application for Certified Copy of Certificate of Birth , Death , Marriage or Divorce
2. One of the following for identification purposes:
A photocopy of a government-issued identification card which includes the signature of the requester
A notarized application for certified copy
The mother’s copy of the birth certificate (issued at the hospital at the time of birth) may be used for identification when obtaining a newborn’s birth certificate.(It must be dated within the last two calendar years.)
If none of these documents are available, see ID requirements for alternatives
3. A check or money order made payable to Tennessee Vital Records for the appropriate fee .
Mail Request To:
Tennessee Vital Records
1st Floor, Andrew Johnson Tower
710 James Robertson Parkway
Nashville, TN 37243
Online
Tennessee Office of Vital Records does not directly accept online orders. However, for your convenience, we have contracted with an independent company to provide you with this service. VitalChek is the only official vendor authorized by the state of Tennessee to process credit / debit card transactions for online orders. Any additional fees will be collected by the independent company.
Order online at VitalChek to be shipped to you.
Check On The Status of Your Order
To check on the status of a request for a certified copy of Birth, Death, Marriage, or Divorce Certificate that does not need a correction please click here to email the Issuance Unit.
To check on the status of an Adoption, Voluntary Acknowledgment of Paternity, or correcting a record please click here to email the Special Services Unit.
Please provide details about your order and your preferred method of contact between 8:00 am and 4:00 pm Monday through Friday.
Original text
Rate this translation
Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate