Mississippi Insurance Department
to create an environment conducive to a competitive marketplace for the sale of insurance products and services while providing the State&#8217;s citizens with the maximum amount of consumer protection.
Learn More About MID&#8217;s Mission and Values
Request Commissioner Chaney
Mitigation Program Information
Request Consumer Assistance
Requests for assistance with insurance matters are most commonly made by calling the toll-free Mississippi Insurance Department Consumer Help Line at 800-562-2957 or 601-359-2453 in the Jackson area.
Click to Request Assistance
Requests for Proposal(RFP)
Any Requests for Proposal (RFP) that the Mississippi Insurance Department is currently advertising.
Click to view Open RFP's
Autism Insurance Benefits Hotline
Click to Connect
Click to View
Elevator/Escalator Inspections
Click to View
Clarity Act/ Market Analysis Data Call
Click to View
Mitigation: How To Get Started
Click to Connect
Health Insurance Rate Review
Click to Connect
Uniform Certificate of Authority Application
Click to View
News
News
Bulletins
Notifications
JACKSON, Miss. – Homeowners across the country are constantly faced with risks due to wildfires, floods, tornadoes, severe storms, and other natural disasters. Click Here To View Document
JACKSON, Miss. – The Mississippi Insurance Department Fire Services Division distributed an estimated $23 million in FY26 Fire Rebate Funds to support fire protection services across Mississippi during the month of August. Click Here To View Document
JACKSON, Miss. – Every year, millions of dollars in life insurance benefits remain unclaimed. Sometimes, beneficiaries can’t find their deceased relative’s policies or, in some cases, may not even know the policies exist. Click Here To View Document
Step Therapy Prohibition For Stage Four Metastatic Cancer (Issued May 21, 2026)
Dental Loss Ratios for Dental Healthcare Service Plans (Issued May 27, 2026)
Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems By Insurers (Issued July 22, 2026)
There will be a Liquefied Compressed Gas Board Meeting on Thursday, November 12, 2026, at 10:00 a.m. at the State Fire Academy.
See All News
External links
Mississippi.gov
The official website of Mississippi
State Fire Academy
Learn more about training courses, accreditation and academy staff members.
Transparency Mississippi
Find information about government spending in Mississippi.
MS Fire Personnel (MSCB)
Learn more about the mission of the MS Fire Personnel, board members and meeting dates.
MWUA
The official website for the Mississippi Windstorm Underwriting Association
About Us
Home
Annual Report
Divisions
Email Directory
Employment Opportunities
History
Public Access Information
Strategic Plan
Quick Links
Licensing Search Company Licensing
Request Assistance
File Complaint
Fight Insurance Fraud Insurance Company Rating Services
Entity Licensing Producer\Individual Licensing Bail Agent License Revocations
Health Care Reform Enforcement Actions
Contact Us
Website Disclaimer
Make Public Records Requests
Open RFP's
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
YouTube
The Mississippi Insurance Department
P.O. Box 79
Jackson, MS 39205
MID.MS.GOV
For general questions and comments email: info@mid.ms.gov • For technical questions or issues email: webmaster@mid.ms.gov