Senate
Senate Leadership
Senate Membership
Senate Reading Calendars
Senate Standing Committees
Senate/Joint Rules
Senate Staff
Senate Page Program
Session Job Opportunities
Legislative Housing
House
House Leadership
House Membership
House Reading Calendars
House Standing Committees
House/Joint Rules
House Staff
House Page Program
Session Job Opportunities
Legislative Housing
Committees
Senate Standing Committees
House Standing Committees
Joint Standing Committees
Interim/Special Committees
Legislative Compensation
Legislative Council
Testiying Before Legislative Committees
Legislators
Senate Membership
House Membership
Who’s My Legislator?
Contacting Legislators
Laws/Rules
Idaho Statutes
Idaho Constitution
Idaho Session Laws
Administrative Rules
Senate Rules
House Rules
Joint Senate and House Rules
Legislative Sessions
Live Audio/Video Streaming
Home
Idaho Laws & Rules
Idaho Statutes
Title 73
Chapter 1
Section 73-114
Print Friendly
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Idaho Statutes
Idaho Statutes are updated to the website July 1 following the legislative session.
Search Idaho Statutes
Search Statutes
Search Constitution
TITLE 73
GENERAL CODE PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTES
73-114. Statutory terms defined. (1) Unless otherwise defined for purposes of a specific statute:
(a) Words used in these compiled laws in the present tense, include the future as well as the present;
(b) Words used in the masculine gender, include the feminine and neuter;
(c) The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular;
(d) The word "person" includes a corporation as well as a natural person;
(e) Writing includes printing;
(f) Oath includes affirmation or declaration, and every mode of oral statement, under oath or affirmation, is embraced by the term "testify," and every written one in the term "depose";
(g) Signature or subscription includes mark, when the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
(2) The following words have, in the compiled laws and rules and policies of the state of Idaho, the signification attached to them in this section, unless otherwise apparent from the context:
(a) "Boy" means a minor human male.
(b) "Father" means a male parent.
(c) "Female" means an individual who has, had, will have, or, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, would have the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes eggs for fertilization.
(d) "Gender," when used to refer to males, females, or the natural differences between males and females, shall be considered a synonym for "sex" and shall not be considered a synonym for gender identity, an internal sense of gender, experienced gender, gender expression, or gender role. This definition shall not apply when the term "gender" is used in conjunction with other words or as an adjective to modify other words.
(e) "Girl" means a minor human female.
(f) "Intellectual disability" means significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning that is accompanied by significant limitations in adaptive functioning in at least two (2) of the following skill areas: communication, self-care, home living, social or interpersonal skills, use of community resources, self-direction, functional academic skills, work, leisure, health and safety. The onset of significantly subaverage general intelligence functioning and significant limitations in adaptive functioning must occur before age eighteen (18) years.
(g) "Male" means an individual who has, had, will have, or, but for a developmental or genetic anomaly or historical accident, would have the reproductive system that at some point produces, transports, and utilizes sperm for fertilization.
(h) "Month" means a calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
(i) "Mother" means a female parent.
(j) "Personal property" includes money, goods, chattels, things in action, evidences of debt and general intangibles as defined in the uniform commercial code &#8212; secured transactions.
(k) "Property" includes both real and personal property.
(l) "Real property" is coextensive with lands, tenements and hereditaments, possessory rights and claims.
(m) "Registered mail" includes certified mail.
(n) "Sex" means an individual&#8217;s biological sex, either male or female.
(o) "State," when applied to the different parts of the United States, includes the District of Columbia and the territories; and the words "United States" may include the District of Columbia and territories.
(p) "Will" includes codicils.
(q) "Writ" signifies an order or precept in writing, issued in the name of the people, or of a court or judicial officer, and the word "process," a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
History:
[(73-114) C.C.P. 1881, sec. 13; R.S., sec. 16; reen. R.C., sec. 16; reen. C.L. 500:16; C.S., sec. 9456; reen. 1899, ch. 5, sec. 1, p. 147; reen. R.C., sec. 5149; reen. C.L. 500:16; C.S., sec. 9456; I.C.A., sec. 70-114; am. 1959, ch. 16, sec. 1, p. 36; am. 1967, ch. 272, sec. 31, p. 745; am. 2010, ch. 235, sec. 72, p. 607; am. 2024, ch. 322, sec. 2, p. 1063.]
How current is this law?