Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
New Hampshire Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. A hearing is not typically required. Publication in a newspaper is not required.
Name Change (Minor): Yes. Requires at least one parent to petition and notice to be given to all known legal guardians. A hearing is not typically required. Publication in a newspaper is not required.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name and notarized application are required to change the name on your birth certificate. You will need to contact the clerk of the city or town in which you were born for the amendment application. The name previously listed on your birth certificate will also be noted on the amended certificate.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes. A certified copy of a court order of a “sex change” and a notarized application are required for this amendment. You will need to contact the clerk of the city or town in which you were born for the amendment application.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name and application are required to change your name on your driver’s license.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes. You can self identify without providing a court order or medical documentation. Your DL/ID may display F, M, or X gender markers.
Restrictions Based on Prior Criminal Convictions: Yes. People with certain criminal convictions or who are incarceration, on probation, or on parole may be required to show a “compelling reason” for the name change or provide additional notice of the petition.
New Hampshire Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in New Hampshire, you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the Circuit Court . You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Further instructions and information about the name change process here .
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
If you are someone who is incarcerated, on probation or parole, required to register as a sex offender or offender against a child, or otherwise convicted of a violent felony or crime against a child, you must make a “compelling showing” that the name change is necessary. If such circumstances apply, you may also have additional notice requirements. For more information on whether you are subject to these requirements, check here .
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the Circuit Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the circuit court of your county of residence. You can find your circuit court here .
Electronic filing is mandatory unless you request and receive an exemption. You will need to go to the court’s website and create a new case to begin the e-filing process. More information about e-Filing can be found here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
Petition for Change of Name
Confidential Information Sheet
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee $170.00
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Motion to Reduce or Eliminate Filing Fees and/or Costs. Further instructions about the fee waiver process are available here .
Step 3: Issuance of Final Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will review your request. You should expect to hear back from the court within 45 days of your filing date. Most name change requests are granted without a hearing. However, if an objection is filed, a hearing will be scheduled.
If the court approves the request, they will sign the Certificate of Change of Name and you will request a certified copy of the order from your circuit court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the court does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
New Hampshire Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the Circuit Court – Probation Division . You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Further instructions and information about the name change process here .
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the Circuit Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the circuit court of your county of residence. You can find your circuit court here .
Electronic filing is mandatory unless you request and receive an exemption. You will need to go to the court’s website and create a new case to begin the e-filing process. More information about e-Filing can be found here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
Petition for Change of Name
Confidential Information Sheet
A copy of your original birth certificate
Consent to Minor Name Change
Filing fee $170.00
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Motion to Reduce or Eliminate Filing Fees and/or Costs. Further instructions about the fee waiver process are available here .
Step 3: Obtain Parental Consent
Consent from all known and legal parents is required to grant a minor name change. Additionally, if you are 14 years of age or older, you will also have to sign the Consent to Minor Name Change .
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary and you can proceed to the next step.
If a known legal parent is not petitioning, they will need to sign the Consent to Minor Name Change . If the non-petitioning parent lives at the same address as you, is deceased, or has had their parental rights terminated, they do not need to sign the consent form.
If a known legal parent will not sign the consent form, you are still required to give notice of the name change. Please contact your local court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation for your county.
Step 4: Attend Hearing (if applicable) & Issuance of Final Judgement
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will review your request. You should expect to hear back from the court within 45 days of your filing date.
If you are 14 years of age or older, the name change request will typically be granted without a hearing. However, if an objection is filed, a hearing will be scheduled. During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the court approves the request, they will sign the Certificate of Change of Name and you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested.
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
New Hampshire Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The New Hampshire Secretary of State will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments and a court order for gender marker amendments.
When a gender marker change is requested, a new birth certificate should be issued with no notation that a change of name or gender has been made. If only a name change is requested, the original birth certificate will be amended, and the amended birth certificate will include a notation of the legal name change and the original name.
When Amending the Name Only
Birth certificate amendments are made by application to the City or Town Clerk where you were born. You must contact the clerk of the city or town in which you were born to ask for the application form, the address for the Clerk’s office, and how they accept payment.
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Form VSCr: Application for Correcting or Completing a Certificate of Birth
A certified copy of a court order for change of name
A photocopy of a valid form of photo ID
The $10.00 amendment fee. There is an additional certificate fee of $15.00 for each copy request.
Please note that you will need to have the affidavit for amendment notarized before submitting. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
If you are a minor seeking an amendment, you will need to use Form VSX and have a parent or guardian complete the process on your behalf.
The amended birth certificate will list both names on the certificate.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
New Hampshire will amend the gender marker on an individual's birth certificate upon receipt of a court order. The court order should instruct the city or town clerk of ______ to change the gender on the birth certificate to ____.
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Form VSCr: Application for Correcting or Completing a Certificate of Birth
A certified copy of a court order for change of gender
A photocopy of a valid form of photo ID
The $10.00 amendment fee. There is an additional certificate fee of $15.00 for each copy request.
A certified copy of a court order for change of name (if you wish to update your name at the same time).
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in New Hampshire , you will need to contact the Clerk of the city or town in which you were born and inquire about their submission procedures and mailing address.
If you are no longer a New Hampshire resident, you will need to contact the Clerk of the city or town in which you were born and inquire about their mail-in procedures.
If you were not born in New Hampshire, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records Office.
Phone: (603) 271-4650
Email: vitalrecords@sos.nh.gov
New Hampshire Driver’s License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on a New Hampshire driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
You will need to update your DL/ID within 30 days of receiving your Certificate for Change of Name.
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Record Change Request form
A certified copy of your court order for change of name
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of New Hampshire residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A list of acceptable documentation is available here .
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
New Hampshire will update the gender marker on a DL/ID to male, female, or X upon self-attestation by the applicant of their gender. No medical documentation is required.
To change your gender marker on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Application for Driver License OR Application for Commercial Driver License
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of New Hampshire residency
The $3.00 fee
A certified copy of your court order for change of name (if you also wish to update your name at the same time)
A list of acceptable documentation is available here .
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your DMV at (603) 227-4000.
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
GLAD Law - Transgender ID Project —offers free legal assistance with name changes and gender marker corrections to individuals living in New England. Fill out their intake form here .
Email: gladlaw@glad.org
Phone: 617-426-1350
603 Legal Aid —offer free legal advice and can help navigate the name change process and update your identity documents. Call to schedule an appointment or apply online .
Phone: (603) 224-3333
New Hampshire Citations
Change of Name— N.H. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§ 547:3-i & 550:4
Initiating Amendments and Corrections to Birth Records— NH Rev Stat § 5-C:87
Town or City Clerk Procedures to Amend Birth Records— NH Rev Stat § 5-C:88
Documentary Evidence Required to Amend Birth Record— NH Rev Stat § 5-C:89
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe