Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
A ban on gender-affirming care is in effect in Puerto Rico. The law, Act 63-2025 , bans best-practice healthcare for people under the age of 21, making hormone therapy, puberty-delaying medication, and surgery inaccessible in Puerto Rico for any trans person until they turn 21. The law also imposes criminal felony penalties for providers who violate the law. The law is currently in effect.
Transgender young people in Puerto Rico can still access mental health care, which is not restricted or banned by this law. Youth and their families may also travel to access care in places where care has not been restricted.
Campaign for Southern Equality&#8217;s Trans Youth Emergency Project does not operate in Puerto Rico. However, we are able to connect people impacted by the ban on youth gender-affirming care in Puerto Rico with an organization working to help transgender youth locate new providers of gender-affirming care outside of Puerto Rico and pay for the cost of travel. If you are a transgender young person between the ages of 18 and 21, or the parent or caregiver of a transgender young person, fill out the form bellow and a member of our team will connect you to support.
If you are seeking patient navigation services and/or a travel grant from the Trans Youth Emergency Project, please fill out the form below.
At this time TYEP services are available to:
A parent or legal guardian of a transgender person under the age of 18 whose access to healthcare has been impacted by a restriction on gender-affirming care.
Transgender people who are 18 years old if they live in Alabama or have lost care due to the Executive Order.
Applicants living in states without bans who are forced to relocate their care because of a clinic closure are eligible for one-time travel grants.
This post is also available in:
Español ( Spanish )
Stay Informed
Sign up to receive news and updates from CSE.
Instagram
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address *
Zip Code *
Sign up
Quick Links
Trans in the South
Southern Equality Fund
Take Action
Shop CSE
About
Connect With Us!
Every day that we live with injustice is one day too long.
P.O. Box 364
Asheville , NC 28802
828.242.1559
English
Español ( Spanish )