Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-2.5
Current as of January 01, 2026 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
Sec. 2.5 . (a) If a person petitioning for a change of name under this chapter is at least seventeen
(17) years of age, the person's petition must include at least the following information:
(1) The person's date of birth.
(2) The person's current:
(A) residence address; and
(B) if different than the person's residence address, mailing address.
(3) The person's valid:
(A) Indiana driver's license number;
(B) Indiana identification card (as described in IC 9-24-16 ) number; or
(C) Indiana photo exempt identification card (as described in IC 9-24-16.5 ) number.
(4) A list of all previous names used by the person.
(5) Proof that the person is a United States citizen.
(6) A statement concerning whether the person holds a valid United States passport.
(7) A description of all judgments of criminal conviction of a felony under the laws
of any state or the United States that have been entered against the person.
(b) A petition under subsection (a) is subject to Indiana Rules of Court Administrative
Rule 9.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-2.5 - last updated January 01, 2026 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/in/title-34-civil-law-and-procedure/in-code-sect-34-28-2-2-5/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Indiana Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
When Campaign Donations Become Illegal
A Legal Bodyslam? Federal Judge Approves ESPN’s Motion To Intervene in Civil Suit Against WWE
760,000 ACA Enrollees Were Dropped Over ‘Fraud’ Claims. Here’s What Consumers Need to Know.
SEC Opens Door for Crypto-Style Trading of U.S. Stocks
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat