Notary Stamp/Seal
COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY
State Registrar of Vital Statistics
AFFIDAVIT FOR AMENDMENT TO CERTIFICATE
(KRS 213.121 Amendment of certificate or report explanation and instructions on reverse)
(901 KAR 5:070 Certificate of Birth Amendment)
Please use only black or blue ink and separate the first, middle, and last names with commas
ANY ALTERATIONS SHALL INVALIDATE THIS AFFIDAVIT
ORIGINAL BIRTH CERTIFICATE INFORMATION
1. Name of Child/Registrant 2. Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY) 3. Sex 4. County of Birth
5. Certificate No. 6. Mother/Parent’s name prior to first marriage 7. Father/Parent’s name prior to first marriage
REGISTRANT/PARENT/GUARDIAN INFORMATION
8. Today’s Date 9. Name 10. Phone No.
11. Address 12. City 13. State 14. Zip
CORRECTION REQUEST
Additional information, including applicable KRS references, administrative regulations, and form instructions, is provided on the reverse side of this document.
Certificate Field Error as Shown on Certificate Now Correction/Amendment Requested
15. Field Name to be Corrected
16. Field Name to be Corrected
17. Field Name to be Corrected
18. Field Name to be Corrected
19. Field Name to be Corrected
EVIDENCE SUBMITTED
Note: The Office of Vital Statistics must approve the evidence used to a correct birth certificate.
If the registrant is eighteen (18) years of age or older, a document established five (5) years prior to the date of the amendment must be provided which supports the alleged
facts; if the registrant is between the ages of seven (7) and seventeen (17), a document established three (3) years prior to the date of the amendment must be provided which
supports the alleged facts; or if the registrant is between the ages of three (3) and six (6), a document established one (1) year prior to the date of the amendment must be
provided which supports the alleged facts.
20. List acceptable evidence supplied for birth correction:
NOTARY PUBLIC
I attest the corrections/amendments requested above are accurate, true, and valid to the best of my knowledge.
Check one—a custodian or guardian must present a valid certified permanent custody or guardianship court order. A Registrant must be 18
years of age or show proof of emancipation by certified court order or a certified marriage certificate to sign affidavit.
21. Mother/ Parent-Signature Father/ Parent-Signature Registrant-Signature Custodian/Guardian-Signature
(Signature) (Date)
22. Subscribed and sworn to before me this ______ day of ____________________, 20_______.
(My Commission Expires) (Notary Identification No.)
(Notary Signature)
If a certified copy of this birth record has been issued within the past year and a copy is returned to this office, a corrected copy will be issued without further charge,
or you may submit the required fee for each certificate requested.
Please mail the properly completed, signed, and notarized form to:
VS-2J Rev. 11.24.2025
Office of Vital Statistics
275 East Main Street 1E-A
Frankfort KY 40621
(502) 564-4212
213.121 Amendment of certificate or report.
(1) A certificate or report registered under this chapter may be amended only in accordance with this section and administrative regulations
adopted by the cabinet to protect the integrity and accuracy of vital records.
(2) A certificate or report that is amended under this section shall be marked "amended," except as otherwise provided in this section. The date
of amendment and a summary description of the evidence submitted in support of the amendment shall be endorsed on or made a part of the
record. The cabinet shall prescribe by administrative regulation the conditions under which additions or minor corrections may be made to
certificates or records within one (1) year after the date of the event without the certificate or record being marked "amended."
(3) Upon written request of both parents and receipts of a sworn acknowledgment of paternity signed by both parents of a child born to an
unmarried woman, the state registrar shall amend the certificate of birth to show the paternity, if paternity is not already shown on the certificate
of birth. The certificate shall not be marked "amended."
(4) Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of a court changing the name of a person born in the Commonwealth and upon request of the
person or the person's parents, guardian, or legal representative, the state registrar shall amend the certificate of birth to show the new name.
(5) Upon receipt of a sworn statement by a licensed physician indicating that the gender of an individual born in the Commonwealth has been
changed by surgical procedure and a certified copy of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction changing that individual's name, the
certificate of birth of the individual shall be amended as prescribed by regulation to reflect the change.
901 KAR 5:070. Certificate of birth amended. Section 3 through Section 8.
Section 3. Amendment of Obvious Errors on Birth Certificate. Amendment of obvious errors, transposition of letters of common knowledge
or omissions on the birth certificate, shall be made by the State Registrar within one (1) year after the date of birth either upon observation,
query, or request of parents, legal guardian or individual responsible for filing the birth certificate.
Section 4. Amendment of Name. A change of name ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be required to change the name as shown
on the birth certificate, unless the registrant, parents, legal guardian, or individual responsible for filing the birth certificate presents
documentation that the name was incorrectly recorded at the time of registration of the birth and meets the requirements in Section 8 of this
administrative regulation.
Section 5. Amendment of Date of Birth. The date of birth shall only be changed with a court order from a court of competent jurisdiction,
unless proof is shown that the error occurred upon the original filing of the birth certificate by the individual responsible for filing the birth
certificate.
Section 6. All Other Amendments. All other amendments to the birth certificate shall be supported by an affidavit or:
(1) If the registrant is eighteen (18) years of age or older, a document established five (5) years prior to the date of the amendment and which
supports the alleged facts;
(2) If the registrant is between the ages of seven (7) and seventeen (17), a document established three (3) years prior to the date of the
amendment and which supports the alleged facts; or
(3) If the registrant is between the ages of three (3) and six (6), a document established one (1) year prior to the date of the amendment and
which supports the alleged facts.
Section 7. Amendment of the Same Item More Than Once. Once an amendment of an item is recorded on the birth certificate, that item shall
not be amended again except upon receipt of a court order from a court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 8. Who May Apply to Amend a Certificate of Birth. To amend a certificate of birth, the application shall be made by the:
(1) Parent or legal guardian, if the registrant is under age eighteen (18);
(2) Registrant, if the registrant is eighteen (18) years of age or over; or
(3) Individual responsible for filing the birth certificate.
Form Instructions
 Section 1 – 7: Registrant’s information.
 Section 8 – 14: Requestor’s information. This would be the registrant, parent, or legal guardian.
 Section 15 – 19: Corrections requested by requestor (registrant, parent, or legal guardian).
 Section 20: Description of evidence provided to and accepted by the Office of Vital Statistics.
 Section 21: Relationship of requestor to certificate holder.
 Section 22: Notary Certificate. The notary must be commissioned in the United States unless the certification is
completed in a foreign country by a notarizing officer from a U.S. Embassy or Consulate abroad. If certification is
made by out-of-state or foreign notary, the document must have a raised seal or inked stamp of the notary.
 Verification of person requesting amendment must show proof of identification unless notarized.
 Forms with whiteout or strikethroughs will not be accepted.
KRS, Regulation, and Instruction Guide