Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Mississippi Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult – 21 or older): Yes. An adult is someone 21 years of age or older. You will typically have to attend a hearing. There is no publication requirement.
Name Change (Minor – under 21): Unclear. A minor is someone younger than 21 years of age. You will typically have to attend a hearing. There is no publication requirement. A Mississippi Supreme Court decision from 2025 raises concerns about the ability of trans people under the age of 21 to legally change their names even with parental support. See below for additional information.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for a change of name and notarized application are required to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for a change of gender marker and physician’s letter are required to make this amendment. It should be noted that a new certificate will not be issued, and the new name and gender marker will be noted in the margins of the original certificate. Only M and F gender markers are available.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for a change of name is required to make this change.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes. Currently, there are no formal guidelines to make this change. It may be possible to update your DL/ID with an amended birth certificate and court order.
Restrictions Based on Criminal Convictions: Yes. Incarcerated people cannot file a name change petition unless filed on their behalf by a district attorney, sheriff of the county where they are incarcerated, or a Mississippi Department of Corrections commissioner or chaplain.
Mississippi Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Mississippi, you must submit a petition to the chancery court. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the Chancery Court . You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Please note that in Mississippi an adult is defined as a person 21 years of age or older. If you are under 21 years of age, please consult the name change steps for minors below.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name. The ACLU of Mississippi has created a helpful tool to prepare the petition. You can also inquire with your county court clerk for the local form.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public. Most chancery clerk’s offices also have a notary public. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license or passport) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the Chancery Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the chancery court of your county of residence. You can find your chancery court here .
You will need to contact your county clerk for the required local forms. You will need:
A Cover Sheet for Civil Case Filing Forms
Petition for Change of Name
A certified copy of your birth certificate
Order for Change of Name
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county, typically around $148)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Affidavit for Commencement of Suit without Prepayment of Fees.
Bring two additional copies of the packet and ask the clerk to stamp them so you have proof of filing. Also ask the clerk how to schedule a hearing on the petition.
Step 3: Attend Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
If the judge approves the request, they will sign the Order for Change of Name, and you will request a certified copy of the order from your county’s chancery court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Mississippi Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 21 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the Chancery Court . You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Please note: In November 2025, the Mississippi Supreme Court upheld a decision by Hinds County Judge Tametrice Hodges denying a 16-year-old trans minor’s name change petition despite support from both of his parents and no opposition from the state. Judge Hodges found that the petitioner needed to be more mature before changing his name as part of his transition. The case contained a minimal record. The decision does not mean that trans minors in Mississippi cannot change their names, but you may want to provide extensive evidence in support of the name change where possible. See below for examples of possible evidence that can be provided.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Petition for Change of Name of Minor. The ACLU of Mississippi has created a helpful tool to prepare the petition You can also inquire with your county court clerk for the local form.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Before the petition can be filed, you will need to have it notarized. You can make an appointment with a notary public. Most chancery clerk’s offices also have notaries. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the Chancery Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the chancery court of your county of residence. You can find your chancery court here . It is recommended to file your documents in-person rather than through the mail service, if possible.
You will need to contact your county clerk for the required local forms. You will need:
A Cover Sheet for Civil Case Filing Forms
Petition for Change of Name
A certified copy of your birth certificate
Order for Change of Name
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county, typically around $148)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Affidavit for Commencement of Suit without Prepayment of Fees.
Step 3: Parental Notification
Notification of all known and legal parents is typically required to grant a minor name change.
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are both typically able to be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. Depending on the county, they will need to file a Verification of the Petitioners, or the non-petitioning parent will need to file an additional consent form.
If a known legal parent does not consent to the requested name change, they will still need to be notified through the serving process. This may be done through personal service (in which the required documents are hand-delivered typically through the sheriff’s office) or through certified mail. If also changing your last name, you will need to serve a summons on the Mississippi Board of Health. You can request a summons from the clerk when filing.Additional information on serving a summons from the ACLU can be found here .
If you (the minor) are of a certain age, you will typically need to sign a consent form consenting to the requested name.
Please contact your local court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation for your county.
Step 4: Attend Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you and your petitioning guardian(s) will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you and your petitioning guardian further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent. You may want to provide additional evidence in the form of letters from supportive teachers, therapists, and other adults in the child’s life.
If the judge approves the request, they will sign the Order for Change of Name, and you will request a certified copy of the order from your chancery court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested.
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Mississippi Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Mississippi Department of Health will issue an amended birth certificate with the legally updated name and sex as a “marginal notation” upon receipt of a court order.
When Amending the Name Only
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Form 1126: Affidavit to Amend Mississippi Birth Certificate
A certified copy of a court order change of name
The $28.00 amendment fee, which includes one certified copy of the certificate. There is an additional $6.00 fee for multiple copies.
Please note that you will need to have the affidavit for amendment notarized before submitting. You can make an appointment with a notary public at your local bank, library, or county clerk’s office. You must bring proper identification (e.g. driver’s license) to your appointment. Do not sign the petition until you are with the notary. For more information about how to prepare for a notary appointment, click here .
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Mississippi will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of “a certified court order, a medical statement that attests to the reassignment, and the required fee.”
The Vital Records Office will issue an amended birth certificate with the legally updated name and sex as a “marginal notation.” This means that a new certificate will not be issued but rather the updated name and gender marker will be noted in the margins of the existing birth certificate. Both the old and amended names and gender markers will be listed.
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Form 1126: Affidavit to Amend Mississippi Birth Certificate
A certified copy of a court order for change of gender marker
A physician's letter
The $28.00 amendment fee, which includes one certified copy of the certificate. There is an additional $6.00 fee for multiple copies.
A certified copy of a court order change of name (if you also wish to update your name simultaneously)
For additional information on obtaining a court order for change of gender marker, you may wish to consult ACLU Mississippi’s automated forms for adults (over 21) seeking a change to their gender marker on their birth certificate.
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Mississippi, you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Mississippi Vital Records Office or bring the proper documentation and photo identification to the office in person.
Mailing address:
MS Vital Records Correction Unit
PO Box 1700
Jackson, MS 39215
If you are no longer a Mississippi resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Mississippi, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Mississippi Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Mississippi, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records Office.
Phone: (601) 206‑8200
Email: VRInfo@msdh.ms.gov
Mississippi Driver's License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on a Mississippi driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the DMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Application for Mississippi Driver’s License / ID
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Mississippi residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A list of acceptable documentation is available here .
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Currently, there are no clear guidelines for updating your gender marker on your DL/ID. You may be able to update your gender marker with the presentation of an amended birth certificate and court order.
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your DMV at (601) 487-7028 .
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
The TRANS Program —offers free guidance and instructions to folks navigating the gender marker and name change process in Mississippi. Financial assistance for this process is available for those who are eligible. They have also compiled an in-depth list of community and legal resources for trans and gender diverse folks, which includes LGBTQ friendly law firms across the state.
Phone: (601) 602-0827
Email: hello@transprogram.org
ACLU Mississippi —LGBTQ Justice Project is a free legal clinic for LGBTQ folks seeking legal advice on a spectrum of issues. ACLU Mississippi also provides guidance and automated forms for updating your identity documents .
Email: LGBTQ@aclu-ms.org
Bufete Legal —is a trans-owned bilingual law firm in North Mississippi that has vast experience navigating the gender marker and name change process.
Email: Sarah@lawfirmbufetelegal.com
Phone: (662) 205-0069
Mississippi Legislature Code Citations
Jurisdiction to alter names— Miss. Code Ann. § 93-17-1
Change of sex by court order— Miss. Admin. Code 15-5-85:3.21
Change of sex by court order— Miss. Admin. Code 15-5-85:3.21
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe