Rules to qualify for NJ FamilyCare/Medicaid will change starting Fall 2026. Click here to learn more.
Call 1-800-701-0710
TTY: 711
Hours of Operation:
Monday and Thursday
Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday
Home
What is NJ FamilyCare?
What does it cover?
Who is eligible?
Immigrant Information
Choosing a health plan
Apply
Need help enrolling?
Using Your Benefits
Questions and Answers
Federal Changes to
NJ FamilyCare
Enrollment Statistics and
NJ FamilyCare Data
Dashboards
PLAN FIRST PROGRAM
Family Planning Services
New Jersey
Supplemental Prenatal
and Contraceptive Program
Helpful Links
Who is Eligible?
NJ FamilyCare includes New Jersey residents; all are eligible to apply.
Financial eligibility will be determined by the latest
federal tax return which, when filed, will be electronically verified.
Children under 19 are eligible with higher incomes up to 355% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) ($9,763/month for a family of four).
Parents still need to renew the coverage each year. Children can qualify regardless of their immigration status.
Adults age 19-64 with income up to 138% FPL ($1,836/month for a single person and $2,489/month for a couple).
In general, immigrant adults must have Legal Permanent Resident status in the US for at least five years in order to qualify for NJ FamilyCare.
Some immigrant adults can qualify if they are lawfully present, regardless of when they entered the US. Examples are refugees and asylees, and there are others.
Immigrants age 19 and 20 who are lawfully present and have very low income ($509/month for a single person and $805/month for a family of 2) can also qualify.
Pregnant people with income up to 205% FPL ($5,638/month for a family of four).
Pregnant people who are lawfully present can qualify regardless of the date that they entered the US.
People over age 65, blind, disabled, in long term care, or adults age 19-64 who have Medicare click here .
New Income and Household Size Calculations
Financial eligibility for individuals seeking eligibility for NJ FamilyCare will be based on their Modified Adjusted Gross Income or MAGI.
This means the income and household size will be determined by their latest federal tax return which when filed, can be electronically
verified. The tax-based household size provides a simplified income calculation.
Click here for Spanish version of of this table.
Click here for a printer friendly version