Search
Dane County Clerk of Courts
Providing information on legal proceedings, programs, judges, and the courthouse
I'd like to... Toggle Links
Search
Search
Dane County Clerk of Courts
Clerk of Circuit Court Jeff Okazaki
Welcome to the Clerk of Circuit Courts Website.
This office is charged with the processing of court case records, the careful stewardship of court finances, and the management of our jury system.
Please be assured that we work diligently to make doing business with our office convenient for our customers through both technology and professional, courteous personal service.
If you do not find the information you are looking for on our website, please contact us directly and we will be happy to assist you.
Most Used Resources
Lookup A Court Case
Family Court Forms
Request Court Records
Jury Duty Information
Prohibited Items
Those entering the courthouse with a prohibited item will be asked to remove the item from the courthouse prior to conducting business inside the building.
An example of a prohibited item in the courthouse is any of the following:
Guns, knives, ammunition, facsimile weapons, explosives, Taser, martial arts weapons, baton, pepper spray, brass knuckles, needle-nose pliers, screw drivers, drill bits, wrenches, construction nails, box cutter, nail punch, chisel, putty knife, hammer, bike tools, sharp kitchen utensils, skateboard, bicycle, metal darts, scissors, drugs (other than your prescription), and alcohol.
This list is not all inclusive. Weapon screeners may use discretion to disallow any other item into the courthouse that is believed could be a safety and security issue.
eFiling Requirements
Documents requiring the signature of a court official must include a blank 3" top margin on page 1 and a blank 1/2" top margin on all subsequent pages. Court software will place the court official's electronic signature in the heftier margin on the first page, along with the filed stamp and a header containing the case number, document number, filed date, and pagination. The header will be applied to the top 1/2" of all pages of documents filed with the courts, whether or not a court official signature is necessary. More information can be found on the Wisconsin Court System website regarding the Wisconsin eFiling Update .
You are required to file copies of documents instead of originals. Keep all originals, as the court may ask to inspect them at a later time. This new policy prevents original documents from being shredded after scanning into our electronic record-keeping system. More information can be found on the Wisconsin Court System website regarding Protection of information (redaction, confidentiality, sealing) .
The eFiling system will permit filings received by 11:59 pm on a particular business day to be stamped as filed on that day. The same will hold true for non-eFilers who submit filings via fax. Remember that only filings that have no associated filing fee and are fifteen or fewer pages in length are permitted to be submitted by fax.
To request to convert an existing case to an eFiled case, please fax your request to the attention of Jeff Okazaki at (608) 266-9286 , or send via U.S. mail. Cases may take several days to convert to an eFiled case depending on the location of the physical file, its age and the number of documents that will be required to scan into the case prior to conversion.
When submitting a new eFiled case, if any party will need an interpreter, please make sure to check that an interpreter is needed and select the appropriate language in the party screen.
Seeking PRP CHIPS Attorneys
Dane County is seeking lawyers interested in contracting with Dane County to represent indigent parents of CHIPS children for the PARENTAL REPRESENTATION PROJECT (PRP). Those currently participating do not need to reapply. If interested, please submit a letter of interest, specifying qualifications and experience (including trial work) to:
Jeff Okazaki
Dane County Clerk of Courts
215 S. Hamilton Street, Room 1000
Madison WI 53703-3285
Or Email: Shelly.Maas@wicourts.gov
Project Description: The Parental Representation Project (PRP) is comprised of a pool of attorneys who provide legal counsel to indigent parents of children subject to CHIPS proceedings. It is recognized that the need to appoint counsel will differ from case to case. Consistent with Joni B. and Richard S. v. State of Wisconsin , appointments will only be made in these cases after the court concludes "that either the efficient administration of justice warrants it or that due process considerations outweigh the presumption against such an appointment."
Participation in the PRP will begin immediately.
A copy of the PRP MOU is available upon request.
If questions, please contact
PRP Case Coordinator, Attorney Kim Zion at (608) 256-8356
Chief Deputy Clerk of Courts, Shelly Maas at (608) 266-4288
****Deadline to apply is September 25, 2026****
Dane County Law Library
Dane County Law Library - Open to walk-in service for forms and copies 8:30-4:30 Monday-Friday
Legal Assistance Programs are available at the Dane County Courthouse.
For More Information contact:
608-266-6316
Fax: 608-266-5988
dcll.ref@wicourts.gov
Weather-related Court Closure Information can be found on the Wisconsin Court System website.