0
Caring For Life
We offer low-cost, high-quality primary care for patients of all ages. Whether you need routine check ups, assistance managing a chronic condition, or treatment for a minor illness and injury, we are here to help.
Medical Services
As a patient-centered medical home , we care for the whole person. Your primary care provider will get to know you and work with you to build a care plan that meets your health needs.
Your primary care provider will coordinate your care with other ANHC providers, including pharmacists and behavioral health clinicians, as well as outside specialty providers. We will do our best to make sure you meet with the same primary care provider at each visit.
ANHC does not currently provide Medicare Annual Wellness Visits , a particular type of medical appointment that is different from an annual or routine physical exam.
Our medical services
Birth control and family planning
Chronic condition management (diabetes, high blood pressure, etc.)
Cold, flu, and COVID-19 care
HIV prevention, testing, and treatment (including PrEP)
Hepatitis C evaluation and treatment
Orthopedics and joint care, including joint injections
Pediatrics (care for children)
Prenatal (pregnancy) and postnatal care
Preventive health screenings
Routine health exams
Physicals (school, sports, CDL, and others)
Sexually transmitted infection (STI) testing and treatment
Substance use disorder treatment
Treatment for injuries including minor burns, cuts, sprains, and strains
Vaccinations
Women’s health care
Immigration physicals*
Immigration Physicals*
Immigration physicals are available to established patients only. They are offered at a flat fee of $500. This fee covers the exam only and does not include labs, vaccinations, or any additional services that may be required during the visit.
If labs or vaccinations are needed, they will be billed separately. Patients who qualify for the sliding fee scale may have these additional services covered under the program.
Medical Care
Dental Care
Pharmacy
Lab and X-Ray
Women’s Health
Prenatal
Pediatrics
Behavioral Health
Nutrition Counseling
Substance Use Disorder
HIV/AIDS Care
Enrollment Assistance
Sliding Fee Discount
Care Coordination
Language Support
Telehealth