Skip Navigation
Home
Conditions and Care
Specialties
Gender-Affirming Medicine
Print
Gender-Affirming Medicine
Gender-Affirming Medicine
Open Menu
Gender-Affirming Medicine
Get Care
913-588-1227
Request an Appointment
Find a Doctor
MyChart
The University of Kansas Health System in Kansas City offers a multidisciplinary approach to gender-affirming medicine, also known as transgender medicine. While working with you on your individual transformation, our goal is to alleviate gender dysphoria or strong sense of dissatisfaction or unease. Your medical needs may require a variety of services specifically planned for you. We aim to assist people who identify as transgender, transsexual, gender variant, gender nonconforming and gender questioning.
Treatments and services
We work closely with gender therapists in the region to provide continuity of care. Our physicians and staff can direct you toward other gender-affirming resources as well, including mental health, medical and surgical care and ancillary services, such as electrolysis and speech therapy.
Our physicians assist in nonbinary, feminizing and masculinizing transition. We also provide referrals within The University of Kansas Health System for other services you may require to reach your goals.
Our services include:
Adult gender-affirming surgery
Feminizing, also known as male-to-female (MTF): tracheal shave, breast augmentation, facial feminization, vaginoplasty and vulvoplasty
Masculinizing, also known as female-to-male (FTM): hysterectomy, oophorectomy, vaginectomy, chest reconstruction, metoidioplasty and phalloplasty
Aesthetics
Fertility preservation
Hormone replacement therapy
Managed by a team of specialized physicians, advanced practice providers and nursing teams
Pelvic health therapy
Primary care
Psychology
Voice therapy and vocal surgery
Call 913-588-6200 to request a consultation. Telehealth visits available for those in Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alabama and Tennessee. For more information, email our nurse coordinators .
Why choose us
As part of the region's premier academic medical center, we provide the highest level of patient care and education based on the latest research. This approach to care gives you more options to meet your goals. We are ranked as the No. 1 hospital in Kansas City and in Kansas by U.S. News & World report. We offer:
The most advanced, comprehensive program within 500 miles
The largest multispecialty physician practice in Kansas City
Board-certified, subspecialized experts in all disciplines
Dedicated nurse program coordinators who specialize in gender-affirming care
Physicians who are members of the World Professional Association for Transgender Health
Professionals across our health system provide health, wellness and support to the LGBTQ+ community . We tailor our services to meet your needs, from patient relations and gender-affirming medicine services to support for community awareness events.
We offer several convenient locations in the Kansas City metro area. Depending on your schedule, the purpose of your appointment and the availability of our staff, you may be asked to visit one of our alternate locations.
Feeling complete
Lucas Wilhite chose to come to The University of Kansas Health System to have gender-affirming surgery.
Read Lucas' story
Comfortable in his own skin
Terrell Smith finally feels at home as a transgender man.
Read Terrell's story
Becoming her true self
Robyn Johnson-Barbee overcame many obstacles in her transgender surgery.
Read Robyn's story
Gender-affirmation surgery at The University of Kansas Health System is only offered to adults aged 18 or older .