Official websites use Ohio.gov
An Ohio.gov website belongs to an official government organization in the State of Ohio.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Trusted applications are secured by OHID
If you're asked to log in with an OHID - the state's best-of-breed digital identity - your privacy, data, and personal information are protected by all federal and state digital security guidelines.
Close
Close cancel
Home
/
Driver License & ID Cards
/
Reprint/Duplicate
Ohio's Real ID
Ohio Mobile ID
First Issuance
Renewal
Reprint/Duplicate
Non-U.S. Citizens
Commercial Driver &ndash; CDL
Motorcycle/Scooter
Restrictions
Mandatory Insurance
Identification Cards
Other Information
Acceptable Documents
Reprint
DL/ID Reprint
Reprint
If your valid and unexpired driver license (DL) or identification card (ID) is lost, stolen, mutilated, or destroyed, and no information needs to be updated on your card (address, name, etc.), you may purchase a reprint of your DL/ID card online at BMV Online Services . If you are under 21 years of age, a reprint of your DL/ID cannot be requested within 30 days of your 21st birthday.
Please note that the expiration date of the reprinted DL/ID card will remain the same as what is listed on the card that is being replaced, and no other information will change. You can only request one online reprint for the DL/ID being replaced.
If you are not able to request an online reprint, please visit a deputy registrar license agency for assistance.
See the Fee Page for information about the cost of reprint DL/ID cards.
Ohio Revised Code: 4507.40
Duplicate
Duplicate
If your driver license (DL) or identification card (ID) is lost, stolen, mutilated, or destroyed, and/or if changes are needed to the information on your card (address, name, etc.), you must purchase a duplicate DL/ID card at a deputy registrar license agency . See the Acceptable Documents page for more details about what may be submitted to show proof of any changes to your personal information. If you are under 21 years of age, a duplicate DL/ID cannot be requested within 30 days of your 21st birthday.
Please note that the expiration date of the duplicate DL/ID card will remain the same as what is listed on the card that is being replaced.
See the Fee Page for information about the cost of duplicate DL/ID cards.
Ohio Revised Code: 4507.06 , 4507.09 , 4507.13 , 4507.51
Ohio Administrative Code: 4501:1-1-21 , 4501:1-1-22
Related Links
Acceptable Documents
Digest of Motor Vehicle Laws
Sample Knowledge Test
Schedule a Driving or Motorcycle Skills Test
Approved Driving Schools
Fees
Forms
Contact Information
Do you have questions?
Chat
Mon - Fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
or call us (844) 644-6268
Remote Queueing Terms and Conditions
Privacy Notice and Policies
Accessibility
Ohio Checkbook