0
THE NAME CHANGE PROJECT
Sign up for updates on our upcoming Name Change Video Game!
The Name Change Project is a program under SisTers PGH that aims to support Trans, Non-binary, and other Gender Non-conforming individuals on their journey to legally change their name for the purpose of better affirming their gender identity. While this journey can be necessary to avoid further judgment, discrimination, and violence against TGNC individuals, It can be a very confusing and stressful process. We aim to eliminate these negative aspects under this vital program.
Mission
The Name Change Project exists to provide support to Transgender, Non-binary, and Gender-nonconforming individuals in Allegheny County. We hope to excel in these efforts and leave each client feeling confident and empowered once their services are met.
The Name Change Project also wants to inform the community of the overly-complicated procedures within the Pennsylvanian legal name change process. We will continue to speak with government officials and speak out about the injustices within this system in the hopes that it will one day change and make it more accessible for the community that we serve.
VALUES
Education - The Name Change Project believes that the first step in advocating for yourself is educating yourself. We provide a detailed guide to all of our clients so they can feel confident and informed during this process.
Independence - The Name Change Project strives to put the power back into the hands of the people. While we provide hands-on support to our clients in need, we hope that a by-product of this program will be our clients walking away with a better understanding of their rights and liberties within the legal system.
Progress - The Name Change Project will continue to work within the parameters of Pennsylvania Law. However, We will also continue to hold the belief that the current Pennsylvania legal name change process is oppressive in nature and we will work towards changing it for the benefit of marginalized LGBTQIA+ individuals.
Please complete the form to be added to our waiting list.