Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Indiana Identity Documents
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. A hearing will be scheduled and there is a publication requirement. It may be possible to waive the publication requirement if your petition is made confidential.
Name Change (Minor – under 17 years of age): Yes. A hearing will be scheduled and there is a publication requirement. It may be possible to waive the publication requirement if your case is made confidential. Notice is required to all known legal parents.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name is required to make this amendment.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of gender marker is required to make this amendment.
Driver’s License (Name): Yes. A certified copy of a court order for change of name is required to make this change.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): No. The Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles stopped correcting gender markers on driver’s licenses in February 2026.
Restrictions based on Prior Criminal Convictions: Yes. Cannot change name if incarcerated. If you have had a felony conviction in the past ten years, you can still change your name but must provide additional notice.
Indiana Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Indiana, you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Further instructions and information about the name change process here .
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Verified Petition for Change of Name.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
If you are currently confined in a Department of Corrections facility, you cannot receive a name change. If you are not currently incarcerated but have a felony conviction within the last ten years, you will have additional notification requirements. Additionally, if you have past convictions of certain violent or sex offenses, you are also barred from obtaining a name change for life except in cases of marriage, divorce, adoption, or for purposes of a sincerely held religious belief. In these cases, additional notification requirements apply.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the Circuit Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the circuit court of your county of residence. You can find your circuit court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
Verified Petition for Change of Name
Appearance by Unrepresented Person
Order Setting Hearing
Notice of Filing Proof of Publication
Notice of Petition for Change of Name
Order on Verified Petition for Change of Name
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee $157.00
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Verified Motion for Fee Waiver and Order on Fee Waiver . Additional instructions for filing a fee waiver are available here .
You may also wish to make your case confidential. To request confidentiality, you will need to file additional documents, which are outlined by Indiana Legal Help and included here .
Step 3: Publication Requirement
Indiana has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted once a week for 3 weeks. The last publication date must be at least 30 days before your hearing. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
You will need to give the Notice of Petition for Change of Name to the person who handles legal notices in your local newspaper. Once the publication requirement is met, the newspaper will send you proof of publication, which you will attach and file with the Notice of Filing Proof of Publication.
If you are concerned that publication or a public hearing may impact your personal safety, you may be able to request confidentiality. You will need to file additional documents, which are outlined by Indiana Legal Help and included here .
Step 4: Attend Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your circuit court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Indiana Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors – under 17 years of age)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under 18 years of age), an adult (typically your parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. These steps will guide you through the process.
You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines. Further instructions and information about the name change process are available here .
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Verified Petition for Change of Name of Minor.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
If you are currently confined in a Department of Corrections facility, you cannot receive a name change. If you are not currently incarcerated but have a felony conviction, you will have additional notification requirements. Additionally, if you have past convictions of certain violent or sex offenses, you are also barred from obtaining a name change for life except in cases of marriage, divorce, adoption, or for purposes of a sincerely held religious belief. In these cases, additional notification requirements apply.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the Circuit Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the circuit court of your county of residence. You can find your circuit court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
Verified Petition for Change of Name
Appearance by Self-Represented Person in a Civil Case
Order Setting Hearing
Notice of Filing Proof of Publication
Notice of Petition for Change of Name
Order on Verified Petition for Change of Name of Minor
A valid form of photo ID
Filing fee $157.00
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Verified Motion for Fee Waiver and Order on Fee Waiver . Additional instructions for filing a fee waiver are available here .
You may also wish to make your case confidential. To request confidentiality, you will need to file additional documents, which are outlined by Indiana Legal Help and included here .
Step 3: Parental Consent to Request Name Change
Generally, consent is required from all known legal parents. Consent is not required when, for example, the other parent has abandoned or deserted the minor, failed to communicate significantly with the minor, or if the parent has committed a crime against the child.
If both parents consent to your requested name change, the non-petitioning parent will need to fill out Consent to Change Name of Minor and file it with step 2.
If a known legal parent does not consent to the requested name change, they will still need to be notified through the serving process. This may be done through e-service, certified mail, or hand delivery. Typically, you will need to send them the Verified Petition for Change of Name of Minor, the consent form, and notice of the upcoming hearing. You may wish to consult with your local county court for the required documentation.
After the other parent has been served with the proper documents above, you will need to file proof of service with the Certificate of Service .
If you are unable to locate the non-consenting parent, you will need to file an Affidavit of Diligent Search .
Indiana Legal Help has prepared instructions for when a parent agrees and for when a parent disagrees .
Please contact your local court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation for your county.
Step 4: Publication Requirement
Indiana has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted once a week for 3 weeks. The last publication date must be at least 30 days before your hearing. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
You will need to give the Notice of Petition for Change of Name to the person who handles legal notices in your local newspaper. Once the publication requirement is met, the newspaper will send you proof of publication, which you will attach and file with the Notice of Filing Proof of Publication.
If you are concerned that publication or a public hearing may impact your personal safety, you may be able to request confidentiality. You will need to file additional documents, which are outlined by Indiana Legal Help and included here .
Step 5: Attend Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed, the court will schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your circuit court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested .
Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Indiana Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Indiana Department of Health will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for name amendments and a court order for gender marker amendments.
When Amending the Name Only
To change your name on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Form 49607: Application for Search and Certified Copy of Birth Record
A certified copy of a court order for change of name
A photocopy of a valid government issued ID
The $10.00 required fee, which includes one certified copy of the certificate. There is an additional fee for multiple copies.
When Updating the Name and Gender Marker, or Gender Marker Only
Indiana Code allows for additions or corrections to birth certificates but does not provide specific gender correction language (Ind. Code Ann. § 16-37-2-10). The Corrections Section of the Indiana State Department of Health Vital Records office will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of a court order for change of gender marker.
To change your gender marker on your birth certificate, you will need to submit the following:
Form 49607: Application for Search and Certified Copy of Birth Record
A certified copy of a court order for change of gender marker
The $10.00 required fee, which includes one certified copy of the certificate. There is an additional fee for multiple copies.
A certified copy of a court order for change of name (if you wish to update your name simultaneously)
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Indiana , you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Indiana Vital Records Office or bring the proper documentation and photo identification to the office in person.
Mailing address:
Vital Records Division
ATTN: Corrections
2 North Meridian St.
Indianapolis, IN 46204
If you are no longer an Indiana resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Indiana, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Indiana Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Indiana, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Office of Vital Records at (317) 233-2700.
Indiana Driver's License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on an Indiana driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with the BMV. You can schedule an appointment here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A certified copy of your court order for change of name
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Updated social security
Two forms of proof of Indiana residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
A list of acceptable documentation is available here .
Updating the Gender Marker
The Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles no longer permits gender markers on driver’s licenses to be corrected, even with a court order or corrected birth certificate. The change in policy was based on an administrative regulation that went into effect on February 12, 2026.
It is unclear if previously amended driver’s licenses will be issued with an incorrect gender marker when renewed or revoked. If you have issues with the revocation of your driver’s license due to your gender marker, please email us at ncp@transequality.org.
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your BMV at (888) 692-6841.
Additional Resources
For even more information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Indiana Legal Services —offers free legal advice, representation, and referrals for LGBTQ folks seeking gender marker and name changes. Schedule an intake and consult their identity document guide for more information.
Email: lgbtgroup@ilsi.net
Phone: (317) 829-3180
The DeBrota Law Firm — handles transgender discrimination claims and name and gender marker changes. Amy DeBrota offers pro bono petitions for name and gender marker changes for individuals with a household income of $40,000 or less. Her office is located 1389 W. 86th Street #261, Indianapolis, IN 46260
Email: amy@debrotalaw.com
Phone: (317) 848-555
Gender Nexus —provides guidance navigating the name change and gender marker change process. You can request an appointment here .
Email: Info@GenderNexus.org
Phone: (317) 650-5988
Indy Pride —lists several organizations under their community resources, including those that provide LGBTQ Legal Services in Central Indiana. They recommend two LGBTQ inclusive law office: Henn Haworth Cummings & Page Law and Vanessa Lopez Law .
Email: info@indypride.org
Phone: (317) 426-8560
Indiana Legislature Code Citations
Petition to Court— Ind. Code Ann. §§ 34-28-2-1 to 34-28-2-4
Law Enforcement Authority to Take Reasonable Steps to Notify a Victim of an Offender Name Change— Ind. Code Ann. IC §§ 11-8-8-23
Name Change by Lifetime Sex or Violent Offender— Ind. Code Ann. IC §§31-15-2-19
Persons Prohibited From Changing Name; Exception for Religious Belief— Ind. Code Ann. IC §§ 34-28-2-1.5
Name Changes— Ind. Code Ann. § 31-33-26-17
Additions or Corrections to Birth Certificate— Ind. Code Ann. § 16-37-2-10
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe