Skip to content
Gender Affirming Care—
Feminist Center offers sensitive, friendly, and affordable health care to communities across the gender spectrum. Any patient can receive our wellness and abortion services regardless of gender identity, and we provide additional services that may be of interest to transgender, gender-nonconforming, nonbinary, and gender-expansive people. At this time, our gender-affirming care is only available to those over the age of 18.
Call us at 404-728-7900 or toll-free 1-800-877-6013 to make an appointment today.
Appointment Info
arrow_forward
Trans Health Coordinator Sincere Porter (He/Him). If you are unsure of what service is right for you, contact our Trans Health Coordinator at [email&#160;protected] .
Services—
We provide wellness and abortion care to people across the gender spectrum. Receiving reproductive health care can be a stressful experience. To increase our patients’ comfort, we offer private exam rooms, and you may bring a loved one with you. Upon request, we can use smaller sized instruments, provide a relaxant prior to the exam, and administer anesthesia.
Hormone Therapy (HT)
We provide hormone replacement therapy, including the following treatments:
Testosterone (injectable, gel)
Estrogen (pills, injectable, patches)
Anti-androgens (spironolactone, DHT blockers)
Oral progesterone
We are happy to discuss medications not listed here
Learn more here .
Exams & Tests
Pre and post-surgical chest exams
Surgical Clearance Lab Work: we can assist you with getting medical clearance for gender affirmation surgery. This includes completing required lab work tests ordered by your doctor prior to surgery and providing a letter from our physician supporting your decision.
Support Letters & Additional Resources
Gender Marker Letter: Our providers can provide a letter to support changing your gender or name on legal documentation.
Referrals and Collaboration: We provide referrals to local Doctors and will collaborate on your continued care.
Trans Organizations and Community Building—
Some organizations and resources for the LGBTQIA+ have been affected by the pandemic and some have had to pause operations. Georgia Voice has a resource list of trans organizations and SnapCo is an organization in Atlanta to connect with especially for movement building efforts. For our Trans health programing, community outreach and movement building efforts we will be working in partnership with TMSM Connect , SisterLove, Inc and SPARK Reproductive Justice Now! on an initiative to deepen relationships with Trans and GNC led and serving organizations throughout 2021 and beyond.
(404) 728−7900
Patient Portal
Donate
Appointment Info
Facebook
Instagram