Skip to main content
Corrections to Certificates
The Office of Vital Records assists with corrections to birth and death certificates, including adding a parent&#8217;s name or fixing clerical errors.
Processing Fees & Timelines
First Year Corrections: No fee if the correction is requested within one year of the birth date.
Standard Correction Fee: $41 (for requests made after one year).
Processing Time: Please allow 3&#8211;4 weeks for legal action and processing.
Contact Information
For assistance with general certificate corrections, please contact Connie Robinson at 406-444-9039 or Connie.Robinson@mt.gov.
For questions regarding adding or removing a father to/from a birth record, please contact Kaylie Kummer at 406-444-1986 or Kaylie.Kummer@mt.gov.
For inquiries regarding Surrogacy, Court-Ordered Name Changes, Adoptions, or Opening Sealed Files, please contact Vicky Root at 406-444-4226 or Vicky.Root@mt.gov.
Corrections FAQ
What is the cost to correct a birth or death certificate?
The processing fee to make a correction to a certificate is $25 and to receive a copy of the certified certificate after the correction is made is $16, so the cost is $41 total.
I want to change my name, what do I do?
A court order will need to be done. Please send the certified court order to our office, along with the fee of $41 and a photocopy of your photo ID.
My name is spelled incorrectly on my birth certificate; how do I get that corrected?
An Affidavit of Correction must be completed and sent to our office. Please include the fee of $41 as well as a photocopy of your photo ID and 2 supporting documents showing your correct name, date of birth and place of birth. If you need assistance identifying what documents will be accepted, please reach out Micah at 406-444-9039 or&#160; Micah.Hall@mt.gov
How do I add a father to a birth certificate?
A Paternity Acknowledgment must be completed and sent to our office along with the fee of $41 and a photocopy of the photo ID for the father being added.
I don’t have contact with the other parent; how do I get the father added?
A court order will be required to add the father in this case. Please send the certified court order to our office, along with the fee of $41 and a photocopy of your photo ID.
How do I correct anything else on a certificate, such as race?
An Affidavit of Correction will need to be completed and sent to our office along with supporting documents, the fee of $41 and a photocopy of your ID.
My date of birth is incorrect on my birth certificate; how do I get that corrected?
An affidavit of correction will need to be completed and sent to our office, along with paperwork from the hospital proving the correct date of birth.
The spelling of my parent’s information is incorrect; how do I get it corrected?
An Affidavit of Correction will need to be completed and sent to our office along with supporting documents, the fee of $41 and a photocopy of your ID.
Can I send a copy of my documents so I can keep the original?
Our office requires the original certified copy of the court order and any affidavit with a notary so we can keep all of these for our records, so please make sure you make copies for your own personal records. Our office prefers that any other paperwork or supporting documents being sent are copies and not the original, such as driver&#8217;s license, marriage certificates, etc.
Collapse Menu
Contact Us
Office of Vital Records
Mailing Address: PO Box 4210, Helena MT 59604
Email Us
(406) 444-2685
Additional Information
Public Access Update Our office is now closed to the public for walk-in services.
Certificates: &#160; Instructions on how to request birth or death certificates.
Specialized Services: Appointments are required for name changes, adoptions, and corrections. To schedule, please contact us at 406-444-2685 or HHSVitalRecords@mt.gov .
Important note:&#160; VitalChek and VitalRecordsOnline are our ONLY contracted and approved third-party vendors. To check the status of your certificate order, please email&#160; HHSVitalRecords@mt.gov &#160;or call 406-444-2685. Find more information on ordering a certificate here:&#160; Birth and Death Certificates .
Other third-party companies may charge customers high fees to &#8220;process&#8221; or &#8220;help apply&#8221; for certificates. If you ordered through one of these companies and are unsatisfied, you can file a consumer complaint online at&#160; Montana Department of Justice Office of Consumer Protection .
Vital Records Fees
Vital Records Forms
Certified vs Informational Certificates
Your satisfaction is important to us! Please click here to let us know how your experience was.