1
New Considerations for Immigration Documents and U.S. Passports for Trans, Non-
binary, and Intersex People
Updated as of January 6, 2026
On January 20, 2025, the Trump administration issued an Executive Order directing federal
agencies to discriminate against transgender, nonbinary, and intersex people. The Executive Order
announced that “it is the policy of the United States to recognize two sexes, male and
female. These sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible
reality.” The definitions of “sex,” “gender,” and “gender identity” provided in the Order are
dangerously inaccurate and cannot be supported by fact or science. This policy is in direct contrast
to how previous administrations and the federal courts have treated sex and gender in recent years.
Lawsuits challenging the Executive Order have already been filed and are currently before the
courts.
It is important to note that an Executive Order cannot, by itself, remove rights guaranteed by the
U.S. Constitution or change certain longstanding legal protections. Nevertheless, this Executive
Order has had an immediate impact on how federal agencies prioritize or enforce the law. This
FAQ provides guidance on how the Executive Order is currently impacting U.S. passports and
various immigration documents. The Department of State, the Social Security Administration, and
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) have each issued guidance in light of the
Executive Order. These FAQs outline current expectations based on available information.
Immigration Equality is actively monitoring this situation and will provide updated guidance as
we learn more.
IMMIGRATION DOCUMENTS
Many immigration documents, including documents used for identification, such as employee
authorization documents (EADs), permanent resident cards (Green Cards), certificates of
citizenship and refugee travel documents, display gender markers and have long required
information regarding a person’s gender as part of the application process.
What is the current policy for gender markers on new USCIS IDs?
On April 2, 2025, USCIS announced changes to its Policy Manual in light of the Executive Order.
According to their new policy, USCIS now only recognizes male or female gender markers,
generally determined by what is listed on an applicant’s birth certificate. This policy guidance
removes the X gender marker option across all USCIS documents, and replaces the term “gender”
with “sex.”
2
In determining an applicant’s gender marker, USCIS considers the birth certificate issued at or
near the time of birth to be controlling, “except when relying on secondary evidence may be more
appropriate.” If a birth certificate indicates a sex other than “male” or “female” USCIS will base
the determination of sex on secondary evidence.
Due to this shift in policy, USCIS will primarily refer to the “sex” indicated in a person’s birth
certificate as proof of gender. It is not clear how USCIS will adjudicate requests where an applicant
has updated their birth certificate to reflect their true gender. If USCIS has any indication that the
sex listed on one’s birth certificate has been amended or updated, they will likely request secondary
evidence to establish sex assigned at birth.
This guidance applies to benefit requests pending or filed on or after April 2, 2025. If you have a
pending application that includes a request to update your gender marker, you might receive a
Request for Evidence or the document may be issued in the incorrect gender marker.
Immigration Equality and Oasis Legal Services are closely monitoring this situation. Please report
any issues you may encounter to us here.
What about gender markers on existing USCIS IDs, including X gender markers?
We anticipate that IDs with correct gender markers that were issued by USCIS, including X gender
markers, should remain valid until they expire. However, USCIS has not provided a clear answer
to this question.
Can I renew my USCIS ID that has my correct gender marker in it?
If your document has an X gender marker, USCIS will not renew your document with the same
gender marker and you will likely be required to list the sex listed on your birth certificate. If your
birth certificate does not list male or female, USCIS may ask you for more information.
If your current document is accurate with either an M or F gender marker, it is unclear how renewal
applications will be treated. The agency may simply reissue the document through its normal
bureaucratic process, duplicating the content of the old document. However, if there is indication
in your file of a previous sex designation it might also automatically change the correct gender
marker to an incorrect one. Alternatively, the agency might request additional evidence of your
sex, such as a birth certificate, or reject the application altogether, requiring you to refile amended
paperwork.
I am applying for asylum. What should I list on my application, Form I-589?
Form I-589, Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal, requires applicants to list
their “sex.” The form previously requested an applicant’s “gender” but was updated to “sex” in
light of the Executive Order.
3
You will need to weigh your options when filling out the I-589, ideally in consultation with an
attorney. One option is to mark the sex designation that is listed on your birth certificate, and then
include a short statement in the additional information section (for example: "I only marked
‘female’ because this is what is listed on my birth certificate. However, I am a transgender man
and ‘male’ is the correct designation for me” or “I only marked ‘male’ because this is what is listed
on my birth certificate. However, I am a non-binary person and neither male nor female is an
accurate designation for me.”).
Another option is to select your correct sex/gender (rather than indicating sex assigned at birth).
Due to USCIS’ current policy, doing so may cause delay, or your gender selection may be
disregarded. If you do select your accurate sex/gender on form I-589, you should include a short
statement in the additional information section (for example: "I have selected male because this is
my true gender. My birth certificate lists female, but this is not accurate because I am a transgender
man.”)
U.S. PASSPORTS
Shortly after the Executive Order was issued, the State Department implemented a new policy
requiring that U.S. passports reflect an applicant’s sex assigned at birth. The policy also removed
the “X” marker option for applicants. This resulted in transgender, intersex, and nonbinary
applicants being issued passports inconsistent with their gender identity and various other
problems and delays. On February 7, 2025, the ACLU filed a federal lawsuit on behalf of seven
people challenging the State Department’s refusal to issue passports with accurate sex
designations. On April 25, 2025, Lambda Legal filed a similar federal lawsuit on behalf of seven
transgender people directly impacted by the policy.
On June 17th, a federal court enjoined the State Department’s policy and ordered the agency to
allow people with a gender identity different from their sex assigned at birth to self-select the sex
designation on their passport while the ACLU’s lawsuit is pending before the courts. As a result,
transgender, nonbinary, and intersex people were temporarily able to apply for a passport that
correctly reflected their gender marker. Unfortunately, on November 6, 2025 the Supreme Court
granted the Trump administration’s request to stay (pause) the June 17th injunction, allowing the
State Department to once again implement its discriminatory passport policy.
What is the status of the lawsuits against the US State Department?
The lawsuits are still ongoing, but the Supreme Court’s decision in November allowed the State
Department to resume its discriminatory passport policy, requiring that passports only be issued
bearing an individual’s sex designated at birth. As a result, if you apply for a new passport, or to
renew or replace an existing passport, the State Department will likely issue you a passport that
lists sex assigned at birth, regardless of what sex marker you request.
4
This may continue to evolve, as the lawsuits against this discriminatory policy are ongoing.
Review the ACLU’s FAQs for more guidance, and be sure to continue monitoring the ACLU and
Lambda websites so you have the most up to date information on the litigation.
Can I update my U.S. passport with my correct gender?
Not currently. If you apply now for a passport with an updated gender marker, you will likely
receive a passport that lists your sex assigned at birth, regardless of what sex marker you request.
You should review the ACLU’s FAQs for more guidance, and you may also check the State
Department's website.
Can I renew my U.S. passport that already has my correct gender marker in it?
If you apply to renew your passport with an already-corrected gender marker, it is likely that the
new passport will bear the sex you were assigned at birth, regardless of what sex marker you list
on the form and what is already listed on your passport.
The Department of State’s policy states that all passports will be reverted back to an applicant’s
sex at birth upon renewal. However, it is unclear how this is implemented in practice. It is possible
that the agency may simply reissue the document through its normal bureaucratic process,
duplicating the content of the old document. That said, Department of State officials may look
through available records to determine if there is any “conflicting information regarding…
biological sex at birth.” If something in their files indicates that the sex designation had previously
been changed, they will likely automatically change the correct gender marker to an incorrect one.
Alternatively, the agency may request additional evidence of sex assigned at birth.
Will I be challenged when I travel domestically or internationally with my ID document?
For domestic travel, individuals can use state identification.1 State driver’s licenses and
identification cards are not affected by this Executive Order. For international travel, existing
passports with an M, F, or X2 that reflect your gender remain valid. However, we recognize
individual agents may be misinformed or may feel empowered to put undue scrutiny on passport
gender markers. Should you experience any issues travelling using your existing passport, you can
show officials the State Department website, indicating that existing passports are valid.3
1 Beginning May 7, 2025, if you plan to use your state-issued ID or license to fly within the U.S., make sure it is
REAL ID compliant. REAL ID compliant IDs will have a star (or a bear with a star) in the top right corner of the ID.
Enhanced IDs, available in a handful of states, are an option for U.S. Citizens and are also REAL ID compliant.
2 While unexpired U.S. Passports with “X” markers remain valid for international travel, you may need to select an
“M” or “F” designation when submitting information to your airline for Advance Passenger Information
System (APIS) purposes. APIS does not apply for land border crossings or purely domestic flights.
3 Immigration Equality is aware that the State Department added language to its website explaining that passports
are valid for travel “until they expire, are replaced by the applicant, or are invalidated pursuant to federal
regulations” (emphasis added). We are not currently aware of any passports having been invalidated and will update
our guidance if we are aware of this occurring.
5
For individuals that received a passport with an accurate sex marker after the June 17th Orr v.
Trump injunction, we do not yet know if these passports will be impacted. However, the Supreme
Court did not instruct the government to revoke anyone’s passport and currently these passports
are valid as long as they are unexpired. Check the ACLU’s FAQs for the most up-to-date
information on this point.
If you need to travel using a passport with an incorrect gender marker, you may be asked additional
and potentially invasive or offensive questions by agents. Travelling with a folder containing
additional copies of identity documents that prove your identity can be helpful, but should not be
required. If you have problems using an existing passport you can contact the ACLU or Lambda
Legal.
GENERAL
What can Trans, Nonbinary, and Intersex people do to access accurate identification?
If possible, consult with an attorney about your specific situation. There is still uncertainty about
how this administration will implement and enforce its policies. Some of the new policies have
already been challenged in federal court, and additional challenges will likely be forthcoming.
Check with www.immigrationequality.org for updated information.
For now, the State Department is issuing new, corrected, or replacement passports bearing an
applicant’s sex assigned at birth. Similarly, USCIS will not currently honor requests to update an
individual’s gender marker on an immigration document. Where an applicant has previously
updated their gender marker, it is less clear how renewal applications will be processed. In some
cases, an agency may simply issue the identity document with the incorrect gender marker if they
have records of someone’s sex assigned at birth. Alternatively, an application could be rejected or
delayed, or the agency may issue a request for more evidence.
What should people know if they are stuck with an identity document, such as a work permit,
issued in an incorrect gender marker?
If someone is forced to apply for, or renew, a work permit with an incorrect gender marker, this
does not impact their legal authorization to work.
Additionally, individuals are still able to update their name on their identity documents, including
federal documents like immigration documents.
➢ For example, if a transgender man is issued a work permit with a “female” gender marker,
he is still legally authorized to work. Additionally, he is still able to update his legal name
on his immigration documents.
Understandably, having legal documents that incorrectly list one’s gender is deeply unsettling and
often can be dangerous.
6
Federal law protects against employment discrimination on the basis of gender identity, and many
states have similar protections. Some states also prohibit discrimination in housing and ‘public
accommodations’ based on gender identity. The Human Rights Campaign has a helpful map that
shows these laws in each state. Consider speaking with an attorney or a local legal services
organization if you face employment, housing, or other discrimination based on being transgender,
nonbinary, and/or intersex.
Does the Executive Order affect legal name changes on documents?
No. This Executive Order only affects gender markers/sex designations. Individuals can still
update the legal name on identity documents using a valid name change order, or other
documentation such as a marriage or divorce certificate.
Individuals can also renew or replace their documents with an updated photograph, which may
help mitigate difficulties when presenting ID documents.
Is anyone monitoring the situation?
Yes. Immigration Equality and Oasis Legal Services are collecting information and examples of
instances where USCIS and DOS fail to issue documents with the correct gender marker, or there
are denials, delays or other issues.
Individuals whose passport applications have been put on hold, denied, or had other issues with
their passport due to this executive order can monitor the ongoing litigation for possible updates.