Greater Hartford Legal Aid Foundation 2026 Celebrating Leaders for Justice!
Joins Us!! October 7th!
Sponsor / Purchase Tickets
&times;
Lawyers For Vulnerable Communities
We promote equal justice for the poor, advocate for social justice, and address the root causes of poverty.
Learn More
NOW HIRING Staff Attorney Positions
View Details
2025 Leaders for Justice Gala
The Greater Hartford Legal Foundation Celebrated LEADERS FOR JUSTICE on September 17, 2025 at The Bushnell. Connecticut Attorney General William Tong was Keynote Speaker at the gala honoring Pro Bono Leader Day Pitney, Individual Leader City of Hartford Mayor Arunan Arulampalam, and Advocacy Leader Judith H. Rothschild, Deputy Director, Hartford Department of Development Services, for their extraordinary investments in GHLA and access to justice.
View the celebration here
HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES Improving Hartford Housing Conditions
We take timely and aggressive action to ensure that Hartford’s landlords fulfill their fundamental obligation to ensure the housing units they offer for rent are safe, clean, sanitary and adequate, and to ensure that no Hartford resident is compelled to live in housing that is unsafe or unsanitary. We provide legal representation in individual cases, while also analyzing and developing possible systemic reform efforts.
HIGHLIGHTED INITIATIVES Enhancing Safety through Domestic Violence Restraining Order Representation
We represent low-income applicants in the Hartford Family Court as part of a multi-court Restraining Order Representation Project. Victims of violence face a complex mix of legal, family and safety issues. GHLA attorneys provide the legal analysis and advice victims need when deciding to apply for a restraining order. For some applicants, a restraining order is just one part of a comprehensive safety plan that also requires community-based resources. Our partnership with Interval House advocates helps victims access the legal protections and safety strategies that victims need.
Due Process
Play Video
GHLA&#8217;s Benefits Advocacy Stabilizes Families
Play Video
GHLA’s Domestic Violence Partnerships Transform Lives
Play Video