On August 20, 2024, the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) suddenly and arbitrarily ordered its
employees to stop updating gender markers on people’s driver’s licenses and state issued ID cards, even when
required to do so by court order.
• Trans Texans, like all Texans, update their driver’s licenses and IDs for a variety of reasons–including if they
move, if they change their name, or to correct their gender marker.
The Department wrote to its employees that it will “not accept court orders or amended birth certificates
issued that change the sex when it differs from documentation already on file” unless there is a “clerical error.”
• It is not clear how DPS employees are supposed to determine what is a “clerical error” and there is no
authority for state employees to openly defy court orders.
The email states “the validity of such documents is currently under review,” but state employees cannot
question or supersede court orders, or ignore someone’s official birth certificate.
DPS is also requiring employees to internally document and report any attempts by people to update the sex
listed on their driver’s licenses or state IDs. As of March 19, 2025, at least 42 records were documented by DPS.
This change seems to mirror other attempts to target trans people’s ability to live authentically as who they are
in Florida, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, and elsewhere.
Texas Attorney General and Agencies’ Refusal to Follow
Court Orders to Update Gender Markers on Driver’s
Licenses, Birth Certificates, and IDs
FACT SHEET
DPS’S NEW RULE
• Trans people deserve to live free from persecution—in Texas and everywhere. Yet the Texas Attorney General
and state agencies are trying to undermine court orders updating trans Texans’ gender markers on their
driver’s licenses, birth certificates, and state IDs.
• Not having accurate identity documents jeopardizes people’s health and safety. When someone’s ID does
not reflect who they are, it can create dangerous encounters with police, employers, health providers, and
others by “outing” them as transgender, non-binary, or intersex and immediately putting them at risk of
harassment, discrimination, bullying, and violence.
• Texas leaders’ obsession with harming trans people is needlessly cruel. Transgender people have always
existed and always will, and the vast majority of Texans do not support taking away their ability to access
basic goods and services. Trans people deserve better than policies that erase their identities and prohibit
them from fully participating in society.
• Instead of working on public policy issues that Texans really care about – like safe schools, affordable
health care and a living wage – politicians are distracting from their failure to address those needs by
targeting transgender people. This is just another example of political bullying that creates real harm to real
people instead of focusing on the issues that will help Texans overall.
Around August 30, 2024, the Vital Statistics Unit of the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS)
changed the form that people born in Texas use to update their birth certificate.
• Previously, this form allowed people to update the sex listed on their birth certificate, while also allowing
people to correct other information on their birth certificate, like their name, parent, and the date, place, or
time of birth.
Now, DSHS refuses to update the sex listed on someone’s birth certificate unless it was “incomplete” or
“inaccurate” at the time of birth, which requires submitting medical records.
DSHS claims that “Recent public reports have highlighted concerns about the validity of court orders
purporting to amend sex for purposes of state-issued documents. DSHS is seeking assistance from the Office
of Attorney General to determine the applicability of these concerns to amendments to vital records. DSHS is
no longer altering applicants’ sex on birth or death certificates based on these court orders.”
On March 14, 2025, the Attorney General released Opinion KP-0489, which claims that Texas court orders
updating people’s legal gender markers are “void.”
The Opinion advises state agencies to “immediately correct any unlawfully altered driver’s licenses or birth
certificates that were changed pursuant to such orders.”
Attorney General opinions in Texas are non-binding and cannot change Texas law nor supersede court orders.
We are closely monitoring how state agencies will react to this opinion and if they will attempt to revert people’s
documents back to their sex assigned at birth.
• If you or anyone you know has had their documents reverted, please contact the ACLU of Texas or Lambda
Legal at the links at the end of this document.
No – no government agency or official has the authority to openly defy court orders.
• DPS, DSHS, and the Attorney General are required to follow court orders like every other state agency and
official.
State agencies are also not allowed to suddenly and arbitrarily change their rules about how driver’s licenses,
birth certificates, and other documents are issued.
• These agencies’ sudden implementation of these rules with no public comment or announcement is an
abuse of government power that likely violates state and federal law.
It is clear discrimination for government agencies to target trans Texans and try to stop us from updating
information on our ID documents in the same way as everyone else, and such discrimination likely violates state
law and the U.S. and Texas Constitutions.
DPS and DSHS are also prohibited by state and federal law from sharing any applicant’s name, driver’s license
number, or other personal information.
• These agencies can only share data with law enforcement or public health authorities under very limited
circumstances.
• The information gathering that DPS now seems to be embarking on departs from their current practices,
and they may not release this information to any other person or government entity, nor use it for any
purpose, without violating state and federal laws.
DSHS’S NEW RULE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OPINION
ARE THESE CHANGES LEGAL?
DPS has made clear that it will not update gender markers on Texas driver’s licenses or IDs – even if required
to do so by court order – and is internally collecting data on anyone who submits such a request on or after
August 20, 2024.
These new rules do not limit or affect the ability of judges to issue court orders updating someone’s name or
gender marker, nor do they impact any other state or federal agency that must still abide by court orders and
update people’s documents.
These new rules are part of a pattern of arbitrary and discriminatory administrative and/or executive actions
targeting transgender Texans.
• There are two ongoing lawsuits against the Texas Department of Family Protective Services (DFPS) that
tried to rewrite the Texas Family Code in 2022 to separate trans Texans from their families for accessing
medically necessary health care.
• Ken Paxton tried to push DPS to collect data on transgender Texans in December 2022.
• And earlier in 2024, Texas Health and Human Services (HHS) cut off Medicaid coverage for trans adults in
Texas who need hormone therapy.
Not Having Accurate IDs Jeopardizes People’s Health, Privacy and Safety
• Having a driver’s license or birth certificate that does not reflect someone’s gender identity and outward
gender expression puts transgender, non-binary, and intersex people in unsafe and dangerous situations.
• In a 2015 survey, 25% of transgender people reported verbal harassment when presenting an ID that did
not match their gender identity, 16% were denied services, 9% reported being asked to leave, and 2% were
assaulted or attacked.
• Texas leads the nation in the murder of transgender people, especially Black transgender women, and
prohibiting transgender Texans from updating their driver’s licenses and birth certificates will worsen their
health and safety.
• Prohibiting accurate IDs will have a chilling effect on trans people’s ability to live their lives, from the ballot
box to housing, getting proper healthcare, obtaining a loan, attending school, driving their cars, getting paid,
and accessing public services. The overall impact will be deep harm to a community that is already more
marginalized and more vulnerable every day as they participate in society.
People Need IDs that Accurately Reflect Who They Are
• Every person needs an ID to vote, travel, apply for housing, pick up medications, receive treatment at doctors’
offices, and verify one’s identity in every facet of life.
• Driver’s licenses are the primary form of government issued ID. Almost 90% of Americans of driving age hold
driver’s licenses. Birth certificates are also often critical as a secondary form of identification.
• Requiring driver’s licenses, state IDs, and birth certificates to be based on a vague, subjective, and highly
politicized view of sex erases the identities of transgender, non-binary, and intersex people and deprives them
of identity documents that accurately reflect who they are for no reason. Having an accurate identity document
does not affect other people’s ability to go about their lives, but it can severely hinder a trans, non-binary, or
intersex person’s ability to live their daily lives
Good Public Policy Requires that Transgender People Have Accurate IDs
• Ensuring transgender people hold IDs that are consistent with their gender identity will assist poll workers, law
enforcement, and other government entities seeking to verify people’s identities. It will also help private entities
further government interests in employment and commerce and other contexts where accurate IDs are required.
THINGS TO KEEP IN MIND
WHY IS HAVING ACCURATE IDENTIFICATION SO IMPORTANT?
Continue to support trans Texans and oppose bigotry and hate.
File a complaint with DPS and let them know that they need to follow court
orders and not discriminate against or target any part of our community:
www.dps.texas.gov/section/office-inspector-general/how-file-complaint
File a complaint with DSHS: www.dshs.texas.gov/community-health-
worker-or-promotora-training-certification-program/complaint-procedure
Contact your elected officials, make sure you are registered to vote, and
make a plan to vote.
Contact the ACLU of Texas legal intake and the Lambda Legal Help Desk
if you or someone you know is directly impacted by DPS’s new rule, and
especially if documents are being reverted:
• intake.aclutx.org
• lambdalegal.org/helpdesk
For assistance with the process to obtain a court order or updating your
other legal documents, visit translegalaidtx.com or other clinics across the
state.
WHAT CAN YOU DO TO HELP OR GET HELP?
aclutx.org
Updated: March 27, 2025