Skip to Content
Accessiblity
Safety Exit
Ensuring Equal Access to Justice Across North and West Texas
Get Help
I need legal help
Am I eligible?
Give Help
I want to volunteer
I want to donate
I want to work here
WHO WE ARE
Legal Aid of NorthWest Texas works to ensure equal access to justice by providing free civil legal services to low-income individuals and families in the 114 counties we serve across North and West Texas.
Learn More Locations
Search for Legal Help by Topic
Explore some of the legal issues we can assist with and learn if you are eligible for legal aid.
Search for Help
Child Custody, Child Support
Debt and Debt Collection
Family, Divorce, Domestic Violence
Fraud, Unlawful Loans, Identity Theft
Health Care Coverage for Low-Income Individuals
Housing, Foreclosure, Eviction, Homelessness
Immigration Issues
Income Benefits
Legal Help After a Disaster
Removing Barriers to Employment and Housing
Sexual Assault, Sexual Violence
Will, Power of Attorney, Health Care Directive
Need legal help?
Apply Online
Apply by Phone
Learn More
Changing Lives Through Legal Advocacy
I am so glad you helped my family in the eviction matter. Without your help, those charges against me would have hurt my integrity and my whole livelihood.&#8221;
&#8211; Diane
I was a victim of identity theft and had no success in resolving matters on my own. The lawsuit filed against me was dismissed, and I cannot thank my attorney and your firm enough.&#8221;
&#8211; Julie
My attorney was very thoughtful and caring about my situation. I felt very good about the professional way she handled the case from start to finish.&#8221;
&#8211; Uvete
Ways to Help
Volunteer
Our organization depends on the volunteer attorneys and paralegals who share our mission of ensuring equitable access to justice.
Learn More
Donate
Further our mission of providing access to justice by donating to Legal Aid of NorthWest Texas online.
Learn More
News &#038; Updates
View All
FEATURED
News
Lubbock Tenant Lawsuit Over Utility Shutoff Moves To New Phase
July 1, 2026
See Details
News
Here&#8217;s What Texas Law Says About Landlords Providing AC to Renters
June 28, 2026
See Details
MORE
View All
Funders
Pursue Justice with Us!
Subscribe to our newsletter to stay updated with our latest news and events.
Enter your email
Subscribe
Close
Search
Processing Fees
Processing fees are approximately 4.1% + 30 cents (AMEX add 1%). Legal Aid of NorthWest Texas will receive the payment TOTAL - 30 cents - 4.1%.
By using this website, you agree to our Privacy Notice and you consent to our placement of cookies on your device. Approve Privacy Notice