Skip to main content
REAL ID Information
About REAL ID
The REAL ID Act establishes minimum standards for state-issued driver licenses and identification cards. Under this legislation, you’ll need a REAL ID-compliant license or identification card to access federal facilities and fly in the U.S.
Your current North Dakota driver license or ID is REAL ID-compliant if it has a gold star in the top right corner.
If it doesn’t have a gold star, you can apply for a new REAL ID-compliant North Dakota driver license or ID in-person at a NDDOT Driver License office.
Required Documentation
To obtain a REAL ID-compliant driver license, permit, or ID card, you must present proper documentation from the REAL ID Checklist provided below. Documentation from each category (1, 2, 3 and 4) is required. Make sure you have all the required documents.
Category 1: Proof of Identification
All individuals applying for a permit, license, or identification card must show proof of identity, date of birth, and legal presence in the United States by presenting one of the documents listed below.
U.S. Birth Certificate (state certified; government issued)
U.S. Territory Birth Certificate
Valid, unexpired U.S. Passport or U.S Passport Card
Report of Birth Abroad issued by the U.S. Department of State
Certificate of Naturalization
Certificate of Citizenship
Valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card
Valid, unexpired Employment Authorization Card
Valid, unexpired Foreign Passport with I-94 and Valid, Unexpired U.S. Visa
Note: No photocopies or hospital certificates will be accepted. All documents must be original or certified copies only.
Individuals born in North Dakota may obtain a copy of their certified birth certificate by contacting Vital Records at the North Dakota Department of Health .
Individuals born in another state may access vital record offices through https://www.vitalrec.com or https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/w2w.htm .
Copy Link
Category 2: Proof of Name Change
If your current name is different from the name on your identity document (see above), you will need to bring additional proof of your legal name. Acceptable documents for proof of name change are:
Certified, government-issued marriage certificate
Certified adoption document
Certified court order authorizing a name change (no photocopies; court seal required)
Copy Link
Category 3: Proof of Social Security Number
You must provide proof of your Social Security number. All documents must contain your name and full Social
Security number. Please select one document from the list below:
Social Security Card (the blue and white paper card)
W-2 Form
SSA 1099 Form
Non-SSA 1099 Form
Pay stub (must contain name and Social Security number)
Copy Link
Category 4: Proof of North Dakota Residence Address
Provide proof of North Dakota residence address by presenting two documents from the list below. In the event you are unable to provide the required documents, please contact 855-633-6835 for guidance on potential alternatives.
Most current government-issued property tax statement
Current mortgage/lease/rental document
Current homeowner's/renter's insurance policy
Current utility bill (electricity, gas, water, sewer, cable, recycle)
School/College Transcript issued within 6 months
Current financial statement (issued by financial institution, government entity, government-regulated entity)
Current pay stub or statement from employer
Current vehicle insurance policy/statement
Current resident certificate or Tribal ID issued by a North Dakota Tribe with North Dakota resident address
Current formal resident statement issued by property owner/renter
Relief Agency or Shelter Certification
Parent's proof of address for minor child (under 18)
Note: All documents must contain your name and current physical residence address. Post Office Boxes are not acceptable proof of residence address. No photocopies; all documents must be original or certified copies only.
Copy Link
In-Person Appointment Required
If you have all the required documentation listed below and are ready for a gold star on your ID, click here.
REAL ID FAQs
Where can I get my REAL ID?
REAL ID documents can be obtained at the following Driver License Sites across the state during regular business hours.
Full-time sites: Bismarck, Minot, Fargo, Williston, Dickinson, Grand Forks, Devils Lake, and Jamestown
Part-time sites: Beulah, Bottineau, Bowman, Grafton, Harvey, Linton, Oakes, Rolla, Valley City, Wahpeton, and Watford City
Copy Link
What happens to the information collected?
Unlike a passport, REAL ID information is scanned and retained in the state driver license system. It is state data, so it is kept in-state only. The federal REAL ID Act of 2005 has no requirement for this data to be shared with anyone. We do not share personal private information except as provided in NDCC 39-33.
The bill approved by the legislature in 2017 makes these documents "not part of the public record," so the security of the data is enhanced and unobtainable for non-official purposes.
Copy Link
What does the Opt-In feature mean?
The Opt-In/Opt-Out feature gives you a choice about whether you want to get a REAL ID driver license or not. If you choose to Opt-In, you will be able to use your driver license as a form of identification to complete domestic airline travel and access federal facilities.
The Opt-Out feature also lets you choose to Opt-Out of the REAL ID process and not obtain a REAL ID driver license. This means you will see no change in how you currently renew your driver license, and you will not receive a REAL ID driver license. Some people may choose to Opt-Out because they plan to use their passport for identification when traveling, or they don't plan to travel on domestic airlines or access federal facilities.
Copy Link
How do I renew my ND driver license?
See Driver License Renewal for information about how and where you can renew your ND driver license.
Copy Link
Does REAL ID create a federal database?
REAL ID does not create a federal database or federally controlled or issued identification document. This is accomplished by the U.S. Passport. REAL ID does not replace a passport used for international travel, such as visiting Canada or other countries. Lastly, REAL ID does not include an RFID chip inside. The Enhanced Driver License (EDL) does have a chip that provides information to a federal database.
Copy Link
Related Resources
REAL ID Checklist
A printable version of what's required to get a gold star on your ID.
Download
Versión en español de la lista de verificación de REAL ID
Una versión imprimible de lo que se requiere para obtener una estrella dorada en tu identificación.
Descargar
Mobile ID Information
Mobile ID is a secure, digital version of your state-issued ID or driver license, giving you control over your personal identification right from your smartphone. Supported in more than 250 TSA airports across the country as well as businesses and venues.
Mobile ID information page