Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-3
Current as of January 01, 2026 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
Sec. 3 . (a) Upon filing a petition for a name change, the applicant shall give notice of
the petition as follows:
(1) By three (3) weekly publications in a newspaper of general circulation published
in the county in which the petition is filed in court.
(2) If no newspaper is published in the county in which the petition is filed, the applicant
shall give notice in a newspaper published nearest to that county in an adjoining
county.
(3) The last weekly publication shall be published not less than thirty (30) days before
the day the petition will be heard as indicated in the notice.
(b) In the case of a petition described in section 2(b) of this chapter, the notice required by this section must include the following:
(1) The name of the petitioner.
(2) The name of the minor child whose name is to be changed.
(3) The new name desired.
(4) The name of the court in which the action is pending.
(5) The date on which the petition was filed.
(6) A statement that any person has the right to appear at the hearing and to file objections.
(c) Except as provided in section 1.5 of this chapter, in the case of a person who has had a felony conviction within ten
(10) years before filing a petition for a change of name, at least thirty (30) days
before the hearing the petitioner must give notice of the filing of the petition to:
(1) the sheriff of the county in which the petitioner resides;
(2) the prosecuting attorney of the county in which the petitioner resides; and
(3) the Indiana central repository for criminal history information.
(d) The notice given to the Indiana central repository for criminal history information
under subsection (c) must include the petitioner's full current name, requested name
change, date of birth, address, physical description, and a full set of classifiable
fingerprints.
(e) The Indiana central repository for criminal history information shall forward a copy
of any criminal records of the petitioner to the court for the court's information.
(f) A copy of the court decree granting or denying such a petition shall be sent to the
Indiana state police.
(g) A person who violates subsection (c) commits a Class A misdemeanor.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Indiana Code Title 34. Civil Law and Procedure § 34-28-2-3 - last updated January 01, 2026 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/in/title-34-civil-law-and-procedure/in-code-sect-34-28-2-3/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Indiana Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
From a DUI Arrest to Another License Suspension: Tiger Woods’ Legal History
Top Questions We Get About the Divorce Process
Two Minnesota Inmates Become First To Earn Law Degrees While Behind Bars
When Does Using an AirTag to Keep Tabs on Something Become Illegal Tracking?
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
Privacy Preference center
Opt-Out Request Honored
Privacy Preference center
Your Privacy Choices
Privacy Preference Center
Your Privacy Choices
As part of your use of our website, you may have provided personal information to us in order to use our products and services. If applicable under law, you may have a right to opt-out of this information being “sold” or “shared” with third parties unrelated to the products and services and you also may have rights to delete, access, correct or manage your personal information submitted to our site using an email address or account. You may elect to exercise these rights through the form linked below.
Opt-Out Form
Privacy Preference Center
Privacy Preference Center
We use cookies and other tracking technologies to provide you with a personalized experience on our sites, such as showing you content and ads that are relevant to your interests. We may need to disclose certain information collected through those tracking technologies, like your IP address or other information that may be deemed “personal information” under certain state privacy laws, to our advertising partners or other technology providers, in order to provide such relevant content and advertising. That disclosure could be considered a “sale,” “share” or “targeted advertising” under applicable law. You can choose to opt out of having your personal information disclosed to our partners for these activities by sliding the toggle above to the left and then clicking on the “Confirm My Choices” button, or by visiting this website with an opt-out preference signal, such as Global Privacy Control.Opting out will not prevent you from seeing ads, but may result in ads or content that could be less relevant to your interests. Additionally, we may still disclose your personal information to service providers and/or processors in accordance with law and our privacy policy. Please note that in some cases supplemental terms may also apply to the data collected and shared through cookies and other tracking technologies, and these supplemental terms can be found linked in the footer of the applicable website. You can read more about our privacy practices, including managing opt-outs in your email or account settings, by visiting our privacy policy, linked in the footer.
Cookie List
Consent Leg.Interest
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
Clear checkbox label label
Apply Cancel
Confirm My Choices Allow All
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat