Page 1 of 2
CIV-708 (4/26) Civ. R. 84; Adm. R. 37.6;
REQUEST TO WAIVE POSTING IN ADULT CHANGE OF NAME CASE Adm. R. 40(b) & (c); AS 09.55.010
IN THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA AT
In the Matter of the Change of Name for:
Case No.:
[Petitioner’s current legal name]
REQUEST TO WAIVE POSTING IN ADULT CHANGE OF NAME CASE
1. I am the petitioner in this case. I ask the Court to not post my proposed name change and
hearing date on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice website, as is normally required by
Civil Rule 84(b), because I have concerns about my personal safety
.
2. I also ask the Court to:
a. make my case confidential sealed under Administrative Rule (Ad. R.) 37.6.
b. show my current name on the public index (CourtView) as “Not Published,” because
this case involves matters of a sensitive and highly personal nature, and publication
of my name could expose me or another person to harassment, injury, ridicule, or
personal embarrassment. Ad. R. 40(b).
c. show my current name on the public index (CourtView) as “Not Published” for five
(5) years, because publication of my name is likely to result in substantial physical
harm to me or members of my household. I understand that after five (5) years, I
need to file this request again if I want to extend the non-disclosure of my name.
Ad. R. 40(c).
[If any of the requests in this section are granted, the case will not appear on public
CourtView and will not be searchable by the public. If a case is confidential or sealed, the
contents of the court file is also unavailable to the public.]
3. My reasons for making the request above are:
[The judge needs to know your reasons to be able to grant your request. If you made a
request in section 2, the judge must also find that you have a reason to keep your case
private that is different than the general privacy reason anyone in a name change case
would have, and that your reason outweighs the public interest in seeing court records.]
4. My Full Mailing Address:
My Email: My Phone:
By providing an email address, I agree that the court and other parties can send court documents to
me at this email address.
I swear or affirm that I read this document and believe all statements in it are true.
Date: Signature:
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me at on
(SEAL)
Court clerk, notary public, or other person authorized
to administer oaths. My commission expires
Clerk Instructions: If this form is filed at case initiation, open case as a “Not Published-Change of Name” case type.
If case is already pending, leave case type as is until receipt of judicial order. If box 2b or 2c is checked, immediately
route request to the presiding judge.
Page 2 of 2
CIV-708 (4/26) Civ. R. 84; Adm. R. 37.6;
REQUEST TO WAIVE POSTING IN ADULT CHANGE OF NAME CASE Adm. R. 40(b) & (c); AS 09.55.010
1. Order on Waiver of Posting
A hearing on the above request was held on
[date].
No hearing was held on the above request.
The petitioner’s request to waive posting is
GRANTED. An
Order for Hearing, Posting, and Additional Service (form CIV-701)
will be issued. The petitioner’s name change request will not be posted.
DENIED. An
Order for Hearing, Posting, and Additional Service (form CIV-701) will
be issued in 10 days, to give the petitioner time to withdraw the petition if desired.
2. Order on Case Confidentiality ( Not requested)
The request to limit access to case records per Ad. R. 37.6 is DENIED. The petitioner’s
interest in confidentiality does not outweigh the public interest in access to court records.
The request to limit access to case records per Ad. R. 37.6 is GRANTED and this case
file shall be made confidential. sealed. The petitioner’s interest in confidentiality
outweighs the public interest in access. The particular basis in this case for limiting
access, and what distinguishes it from the confidentiality interests of persons affected by
disclosure in similar case types, is:
3. Other Findings/Orders:
Recommended:
by Master on Superior Court Judge Date
I certify that on , a copy of this order
was distributed to the petitioner. Clerk: Type or Print Name
4. Order On Removal of Petitioner’s Name from the Public Index ( Not requested)
Removal of petitioner’s name from the public index is DENIED. The public interest in
disclosure outweighs the petitioner’s interest in protection of the petitioner’s name.
Removal of the petitioner’s name from the public index is GRANTED under Ad. R.
40(b). 40(c). The petitioner’s interest in protection of the petitioner’s name
outweighs the public interest in disclosure. The particular basis for protecting the
petitioner’s name in this case, as distinguished from the interest in protecting the names
of persons in similar case types, is:
The clerk shall substitute “Not Published” for the petitioner’s name on the public index.
For cases under Ad. R. 40(c) only, this substitution shall last for five years. After five
years, the petitioner’s name will appear on the public index unless the presiding judge
orders the name protected for a longer time upon another request.
Date Presiding Judge Type or Print Name
Clerk Instructions:
• If request in section 2 is GRANTED, add docket TF325 (if confidential) or TF330 (if sealed).
• If request in section 4 is DENIED, and the case is currently “Not Published-Change of Name” case type, wait 13
days from date of service. After that, if request is still denied, change case type to public “Change of Name.”
• If request in section 4 is GRANTED, and the case is currently a public “Change of Name,” immediately change
case type to “Not Published-Change of Name.”
• Distribute all orders to Petitioner