Skip to main content
Skip to footer
Update your contact information
Members need to update their contact information to make sure you receive important information about your coverage
Update your Information
Scroll
Apply
Apply for health coverage, find help in your area and learn more about health plans
Apply
Scroll
Learn
Learn about health care coverage and premium assistance programs for children, pregnant women, and adults
Learn
Scroll
Cardinal Care is here, and we know you have questions
For more information, click on the Cardinal (for a video) or Information links below:
Member Information
Provider Information
Scroll
Received Services at Fishing Point Healthcare and its Affiliated Pharmacies?
Medicaid members who have received services at Fishing Point Healthcare and its affiliated pharmacies, Fishing Point Healthcare has decided to pause services for Virginia Medicaid members effective April 15, 2026. You can contact the Member Helpline, or if you are enrolled with an MCO, please contact them to assist you in finding an enrolled healthcare provider who meets your needs.
Click Here for Contact Information
Scroll
New Federal Requirements
A new federal law made major changes to Medicaid eligibility for certain adults, including a new work requirement. Learn more about these new requirements by visiting NEW Federal Requirements .
Cardinal Care Updates
Please stay tuned for more updates by checking your mailbox and visiting the DMAS website.
Renewing Your Coverage
Did you know you have to renew your Virginia Medicaid coverage each year? If you do not complete your renewal, you will lose your Medicaid health coverage. For details on how to renew, visit Renew my coverage .
2026 Back to School
2026 Back to School flyers and digital messaging materials are now available! We urge schools and community partners to spread the word about Cardinal Care and distribute these useful materials through out the year. Flyers can be ordered at no cost on the Back to School page .
Stay Connected
Sign up here to receive the latest news and updates.
Sign Up
Cookie Notice
Find out more about how this website uses cookies to enhance your browsing experience.
Accept