Skip to Content
Chapter 127
Search the Legislature
Search the Legislature
Search
Original Legislation: H.5090
Print Page
Prev ious
Next
AN ACT EXPANDING PROTECTIONS FOR REPRODUCTIVE AND GENDER-AFFIRMING CARE
Whereas, The deferred operation of this act would tend to defeat its purpose, which is to expand protections for reproductive and gender-affirming care, therefore it is hereby declared to be an emergency law, necessary for the immediate preservation of the public convenience. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:
SECTION 1. Section 1 of chapter 9A of the General Laws, as appearing in the 2020 Official Edition, is hereby amended by inserting after the definition of &ldquo;Application assistant&rdquo; the following 3 definitions:-
&ldquo;Gender-affirming health care services&rdquo;, all supplies, care and services of a medical, behavioral health, mental health, surgical, psychiatric, therapeutic, diagnostic, preventative, rehabilitative or supportive nature relating to the treatment of gender dysphoria.
&ldquo;Legally-protected health care activity&rdquo;, (i) the exercise and enjoyment, or attempted exercise and enjoyment, by any person of rights to reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services secured by the constitution or laws of the commonwealth or the provision of insurance coverage for such services; or (ii) any act or omission undertaken to aid or encourage, or attempt to aid or encourage, any person in the exercise and enjoyment, or attempted exercise and enjoyment, of rights to reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services secured by the constitution or laws of the commonwealth or to provide insurance coverage for such services; provided, however, that the provision of such a health care service by a person duly licensed under the laws of the commonwealth and physically present in the commonwealth and the provision of insurance coverage for such services shall be legally protected if the service is permitted under the laws of the commonwealth, regardless of the patient's location; and provided further, that &ldquo;legally-protected health care activity&rdquo; shall not include any service rendered below an applicable professional standard of care or that would violate anti-discrimination laws of the commonwealth.
&ldquo;Reproductive health care services&rdquo;, all supplies, care and services of a medical, behavioral health, mental health, surgical, psychiatric, therapeutic, diagnostic, preventative, rehabilitative or supportive nature relating to pregnancy, contraception, assisted reproduction, miscarriage management or the termination of a pregnancy.
SECTION 2. Section 2 of said chapter 9A, as so appearing, is hereby amended by striking out subsection (1) and inserting in place thereof the following subsection:-
(1)(a) Upon recommendation of an application assistant, an adult person, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of a minor or a guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated person may apply to the secretary to have an address designated by the secretary serve as the person's address or the address of the minor or incapacitated person.
(b) Individuals engaged in the provision, facilitation or promotion of legally-protected health care activity may apply to the secretary to have an address designated by the secretary serve as the health care professional's address; provided, however, that in such cases, no recommendation of an application assistant shall be required.
SECTION 3. Said chapter 9A is hereby further amended by striking out section 7, as so appearing, and inserting in place thereof the following section:-
Section 7. The secretary shall promulgate regulations to implement this chapter and in doing so shall consult with the secretary of health and human services, Jane Doe Inc.: The Massachusetts Coalition Against Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders, Inc., Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts, Inc., ABCD, Inc. on behalf of the MA Family Planning Association, The Massachusetts League of Community Health Centers, Inc., the Maternal Outcomes for Translational Health Equity Research Lab, Resilient Sisterhood Project, Inc., Health Care Without Walls, Inc., Our Bodies Ourselves and Reproductive Equity Now, Inc.
SECTION 4. Chapter 12 of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after section 11I the following 2 sections:-
Section 11I&frac12;. (a) As used in this section, the following words shall have the following meanings unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
&ldquo;Gender-affirming health care services&rdquo;, all supplies, care and services of a medical, behavioral health, mental health, surgical, psychiatric, therapeutic, diagnostic, preventative, rehabilitative or supportive nature relating to the treatment of gender dysphoria.
&ldquo;Abusive litigation&rdquo;, litigation or other legal action to deter, prevent, sanction or punish any person engaging in legally-protected health care activity by: (i) filing or prosecuting any action in any state other than the commonwealth where liability, in whole or part, directly or indirectly, is based on legally-protected health care activity that occurred in the commonwealth, including any action in which liability is based on any theory of vicarious, joint or several liability derived therefrom; or (ii) attempting to enforce any order or judgment issued in connection with any such action by any party to the action or any person acting on behalf of a party to the action; provided, however, that a lawsuit shall be considered to be based on conduct that occurred in the commonwealth if any part of any act or omission involved in the course of conduct that forms the basis for liability in the lawsuit occurs or is initiated in the commonwealth, whether or not such act or omission is alleged or included in any pleading or other filing in the lawsuit
. &ldquo;Legally-protected health care activity&rdquo;, (i) the exercise and enjoyment, or attempted exercise and enjoyment, by any person of rights to reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services secured by the constitution or laws of the commonwealth or the provision of insurance coverage for such services; or (ii) any act or omission undertaken to aid or encourage, or attempt to aid or encourage, any person in the exercise and enjoyment, or attempted exercise and enjoyment, of rights to reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services secured by the constitution or laws of the commonwealth; provided, however, that the provision of such a health care service by a person duly licensed under the laws of the commonwealth and physically present in the commonwealth and the provision of insurance coverage for such services shall be legally protected if the service is permitted under the laws of the commonwealth, regardless of the patient's location; and provided further, that &ldquo;legally-protected health care activity&rdquo; shall not include any service rendered below an applicable professional standard of care or that would violate anti-discrimination laws of the commonwealth.
&ldquo;Reproductive health care services&rdquo;, all supplies, care and services of a medical, behavioral health, mental health, surgical, psychiatric, therapeutic, diagnostic, preventative, rehabilitative or supportive nature relating to pregnancy, contraception, assisted reproduction, miscarriage management or the termination of a pregnancy.
(b) Access to reproductive health care services and gender-affirming health care services is a right secured by the constitution and laws of the commonwealth. Interference with this right, whether or not under the color of law, is against the public policy of the commonwealth.
(c) Any public act or record of a foreign jurisdiction that prohibits, criminalizes, sanctions, authorizes a person to bring a civil action against or otherwise interferes with a person, provider, carrier or other entity in the commonwealth that seeks, receives, causes, aids in access to, aids or abets or provides, or attempts or intends to seek, receive, cause, aid in access to, aid or abet or provide, reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services shall be an interference with the exercise and enjoyment of the rights secured by the constitution and laws of the commonwealth and shall be a violation of the public policy of the commonwealth.
(d) If a person, including any plaintiff, prosecutor, attorney or law firm, whether or not acting under color of law, engages or attempts to engage in abusive litigation that infringes on, interferes with or attempts to infringe on or interfere with legally-protected health care activity, any aggrieved person, provider, carrier or other entity, including any defendant in such abusive litigation, may institute and prosecute a civil action for injunctive, monetary or other appropriate relief within 3 years after the cause of action accrues.
Any aggrieved person, provider, carrier or other entity, including any defendant in such abusive litigation, may move to modify or quash any subpoena issued in connection with such abusive litigation on the grounds that the subpoena is unreasonable, oppressive or inconsistent with the public policy of the commonwealth pursuant to the Massachusetts Rules of Civil Procedure.
If the court finds for the petitioner in an action authorized by this section, recovery shall be in the amount of actual damages, which shall include damages for the amount of any judgment issued in connection with any abusive litigation, and any and all other expenses, costs or reasonable attorney's fees incurred in connection with the abusive litigation.
(e) A court may exercise jurisdiction over a person in an action authorized by this section if: (i) personal jurisdiction is found under section 3 of chapter 223A; (ii) the person has commenced any action in any court in the commonwealth and, during the pendency of that action or any appeal therefrom, a summons and complaint is served on the person or the attorney appearing on the person's behalf in that action or as otherwise permitted by law; or (iii) the exercise of jurisdiction is permitted under the Constitution of the United States.
(f) This section shall not apply to a lawsuit or judgment entered in another state that is based on conduct for which a cause of action exists under the laws of the commonwealth if the course of conduct that forms the basis for liability had occurred entirely in the commonwealth, including any contract, tort, common law or statutory claims.
Section 11I&frac34;. Notwithstanding any general or special law or common law conflict of law rule to the contrary, the laws of the commonwealth shall govern in any case or controversy heard in the commonwealth related to reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12;, except as may be required by federal law.
SECTION 5. Section 105 of chapter 13 of the General Laws, as amended by section 23 of chapter 39 of the acts of 2021, is hereby further amended by adding the following 2 paragraphs:-
Notwithstanding any general or special law or rule or regulation to the contrary, a person licensed under this section or in accordance with sections 255 or 256 of chapter 112, shall not be subject to discipline by the board, including the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration or reprimand, censure or monetary fine, for providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with the standards of conduct for genetic counselors if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth; provided further, that the board shall not take adverse action on an application for registration of a qualified genetic counselor based on a criminal or civil action or disciplinary action by a licensing board of another state that arises from such health care services that, as provided, would have been lawful and consistent with the standards of conduct for genetic counselors if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth. Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate the practice of genetic counselors in any other state.
SECTION 6. Chapter 15A of the General Laws is hereby amended by adding the following 2 sections:-
Section 46. (a) As used in this section and section 47, the following words shall have the following meanings unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
&ldquo;Institution&rdquo;, a public institution of higher education listed in section 5.
&ldquo;Medication abortion&rdquo;, abortion provided by medication techniques.
&ldquo;Medication abortion readiness&rdquo;, each institution's preparedness to provide medication abortions to students or assist students in obtaining medication abortions, including, but not limited to, having in place equipment, protocols, patient educational materials, informational websites and training for staff; provided, however, that &ldquo;medication abortion readiness&rdquo; may include the provision of medication abortions.
&ldquo;Health center&rdquo;, a clinic or health center providing primary health care services to students operated by an institution.
(b)(1) Each institution shall develop a medication abortion readiness plan for its students.
(2) The department of public health shall issue guidance to all institutions regarding the required contents of medication abortion readiness plans in accordance with the varied capabilities of institutions to provide services including, but not limited to, directly providing medication abortions to students in a health center, providing referrals for abortion care services not provided in the health center or providing information to students about obtaining a medication abortion. In developing the guidance, the department shall consider factors including, but not limited to, whether the institution has an operational health center on campus, the institution's proximity to a hospital, clinic or other facility that provides medication abortion, availability, convenience and cost of public transportation between the institution and closest facility that provides medication abortion and whether the institution employs health care workers on campus.
(3) The department of public health shall review medication abortion readiness plans annually, taking into consideration any changes to the capacity of each institution to provide services to students since the preceding approval of the plan.
(c) Each institution shall annually submit any amendments or revisions to its medication abortion readiness plan to the department of public health.
(d) Annually, not later than January 31, the department of public health shall determine whether the plan is adequate in proportion to each institution's capacity. The department shall provide further guidance to institutions with plans deemed inadequate that includes remedial measures for the institution to develop an adequate plan.
Section 47. (a) There shall be established and set up on the books of the commonwealth a separate fund to be known as the Public University Health Center Sexual and Reproductive Health Preparation Fund for the purpose of medication abortion readiness. The fund shall be administered by the department of public health, in consultation with the department of higher education. The fund shall be credited with: (i) revenue from appropriations or other money authorized by the general court and specifically designated to be credited to the fund; and (ii) funds from non-state entities, including, but not limited to, gifts, grants and donations from private entities and local and federal government agencies. Amounts credited to the fund shall not be subject to further appropriation and any money remaining in the fund at the end of a fiscal year shall not revert to the General Fund
(b) The department of public health shall utilize money in the fund to:
(i) provide a grant to each health center to pay for the cost of direct and indirect medication abortion readiness; provided, however, that, the department shall prioritize applications from the University of Massachusetts and state university segments and create a simple application process for community colleges to apply for funding; and provided further, that allowable expenses under these grants shall include, but not be limited to: (A) the purchase of equipment used in the provision of medication abortions; (B) facility and security upgrades; (C) costs associated with enabling the health center to deliver telehealth services; (D) costs associated with training staff in the provision of medication abortions; (E) staff cost reimbursement and clinical revenue offset while staff are in trainings; and (F) billing specialist consultation
(ii) pay the direct and indirect costs of the department of public health associated with administration of the fund, including the costs of hiring staff; and
(iii) maintain a system of financial reporting on all aspects of the fund.
(c) Each health center grantee shall, as a condition of receiving a grant award from the fund, participate in an evaluation of its medication abortion readiness and its provision of medication abortions.
(d) The department of public health, working with the health centers, shall assist and advise on potential pathways for health centers to access public and private payers to provide funding for ongoing costs of providing medication abortions. (e)(1) Annually, not later than December 31, the department of public health shall submit a report to the clerks of the senate and house of representatives, including, but not limited to, all of the following information for each reporting period:
(i) an accounting of the medication abortion plans of all institutions, including, but not limited to, a list of institutions that have submitted plans deemed adequate by the department, a list of institutions that are actively developing a remedial plan and a list of institutions that have not submitted an adequate plan to the department;
(ii) the number of medication abortions provided at health centers, disaggregated, to the extent possible, by the health center;
(iii) the total amount of funds granted by the department of public health to each institution and its health center from the fund that is expended on medication abortion readiness and the total amount of any other funds expended on medication abortion readiness and the source of those funds, disaggregated by use and, to the extent possible, health center; and
(iv) the total amount of funds expended on the provision of medication abortions and the source of those funds, disaggregated by use and, to the extent possible, health center.
(2) The report required in paragraph (1) and any associated data collected shall comply with state and federal privacy laws, including, but not limited to, section 70E of chapter 111, the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, 20 U.S.C. 1232g and the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Public Law 104-191.
SECTION 7. Section 17C of chapter 32A of the General Laws, as appearing in the 2020 Official Edition, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;for&rdquo;, in line 3, the following words:- abortion as defined in section 12K of chapter 112, abortion-related care.
SECTION 8. Said section 17C of said chapter 32A, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by inserting after the second paragraph the following 2 paragraphs:-
Coverage provided under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not be subject to any deductible, coinsurance, copayment or any other cost-sharing requirement; provided, however, that deductibles, coinsurance or copayments shall be required if the applicable plan is governed by the federal Internal Revenue Code and would lose its tax-exempt status as a result of the prohibition on deductibles, coinsurance or copayments for these services. Coverage for abortion or abortion-related care offered under this section shall not impose unreasonable restrictions or delays in the coverage.
Benefits for an enrollee under this section shall be the same for the enrollee's covered spouse and covered dependents.
SECTION 9. Chapter 94C of the General Laws is hereby amended by striking out section 19A, as so appearing, and inserting in place thereof the following section:-
Section 19A. (a) As used in this section, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, &ldquo;emergency contraception&rdquo; shall mean any drug approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration as a contraceptive method for use after sexual intercourse, whether provided over-the-counter or by prescription.
(b) The department shall ensure that a statewide standing order is issued to authorize the dispensing of emergency contraception by a licensed pharmacist. The statewide standing order shall include, but not be limited to, written, standardized procedures or protocols for the dispensing of emergency contraception by a licensed pharmacist. Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, the commissioner, or a physician designated by the commissioner who is registered to distribute or dispense a controlled substance in the course of professional practice pursuant to section 7, shall issue a statewide standing order that may be used by a licensed pharmacist to dispense emergency contraception under this section.
(c) Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, a licensed pharmacist may dispense emergency contraception in accordance with the statewide standing order issued under subsection (b). Except for an act of gross negligence or willful misconduct, a pharmacist who, acting in good faith, dispenses emergency contraception shall not be subject to any criminal or civil liability or any professional disciplinary action by the board of registration in pharmacy related to the use or administration of emergency contraception.
(d) Before dispensing emergency contraception authorized under this section, a pharmacist may complete a training program approved by the commissioner on emergency contraception; provided, however, that the training shall include, but not be limited to, proper documentation, quality assurance and referral to additional services, including appropriate recommendation that the patient follow-up with a medical practitioner.
(e) A pharmacist dispensing emergency contraception under this section shall annually provide to the department the number of times such emergency contraception is dispensed. Reports made pursuant to this section shall not identify any individual patient, shall be confidential and shall not be public records as defined by clause Twenty-sixth of section 7 of chapter 4 or section 10 of chapter 66.
(f) Except for an act of gross negligence or willful misconduct, the commissioner or a physician who issues the statewide standing order under subsection (b) and any medical practitioner who, acting in good faith, directly or through the standing order, prescribes or dispenses emergency contraception shall not be subject to any criminal or civil liability or any professional disciplinary action.
(g) The department, board of registration in medicine, board of registration in nursing and board of registration in pharmacy shall adopt regulations to implement this section.
SECTION 10. Chapter 112 of the General Laws is hereby amended by inserting after section 5F the following section:-
Section 5F&frac12;. Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, no person shall be subject to discipline by the board, including the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration or reprimand, censure or monetary fine, for providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with good medical practice if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
The board shall not make available for public dissemination on a physician's individual profile the record of any criminal conviction or charge for a felony or serious misdemeanor, final disciplinary action by a licensing board in another state or a medical malpractice court judgment, arbitration award or settlement that resulted from providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with good medical practice if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth. The board shall not take adverse action on an application for registration of a qualified physician based on a criminal or civil action, disciplinary action by a licensing board of another state or a medical malpractice claim in another state arising from the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services that, as provided, would have been lawful and consistent with good medical practice if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate the practice of medicine in any other state.
SECTION 11. Section 9H of said chapter 112, as appearing in the 2020 Official Edition, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;sections&rdquo;, in line 4, the following words:- ; provided, however, that notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, no person shall be subject to discipline by the board, including the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration or reprimand, censure or monetary fine, for providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with the standards of conduct for physician assistants if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth; provided further, that the board shall not take adverse action on an application for registration of a qualified physician assistant based on a criminal or civil action or disciplinary action by a licensing board of another state that arises from such health care services that, as provided, would have been lawful and consistent with the standards of conduct for physician assistants if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate the practice of physician assistants in any other state.
SECTION 12. Chapter 112 is hereby amended by striking out section 12N and inserting in place thereof of the following section:-
Section 12N. If a pregnancy has existed for 24 weeks or more, no abortion may be performed except by a physician, and only if in the best medical judgement of the physician it is: (i) necessary to preserve the life of the patient; (ii) necessary to preserve the patient's physical or mental health; (iii) warranted because of a lethal fetal anomaly or diagnosis; or (iv) warranted because of a grave fetal diagnosis that indicates that the fetus is incompatible with sustained life outside of the uterus without extraordinary medical interventions.
SECTION 13. Said chapter 112 is hereby further amended by inserting after section 12N the following section:-
Section 12N&frac12;. (a) Each circumstance permitting an abortion for a pregnancy that has existed for 24 weeks or more under section 12N shall be considered independently by a treating physician and a patient or the patient's health care proxy. No medical review process shall override a determination by a treating physician and a patient or the patient's health care proxy to provide an abortion consistent with said section 12N.
(b) Annually, not later than September 1, every facility authorized to perform health care services under section 12N shall submit to the department of public health a written report that includes the facility's procedures and processes for providing services consistent with said section 12N and this section.
SECTION 14. Section 32 of said chapter 112, as appearing in the 2020 Official Edition, is hereby amended by striking out, in lines 6 and 7, the words &ldquo;one hundred and thirty-eight&rdquo; and inserting in place thereof the following words:- 138; provided, however, that notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, no person, pharmacy or pharmacy department shall be subject to discipline by the board, including the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration or reprimand, censure or monetary fine, for providing or assisting, including dispensing of medication, in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with the code of professional conduct for pharmacists if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth; provided further, that the board shall not take adverse action on an application for registration of a qualified pharmacist based on a criminal or civil action or disciplinary action by a licensing board of another state that arises from such health care services, including the dispensing of medication, that, as provided, would have been lawful and consistent with the code of professional conduct for pharmacists if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate the practice of pharmacists in any other state.
SECTION 15. Section 77 of said chapter 112, as so appearing, is hereby amended by adding the following 4 paragraphs:-
Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, no person shall be subject to discipline by the board, including the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration or reprimand, censure or monetary fine, for providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with the standard of conduct for nurses if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
The board shall not make available for public dissemination on an advanced practice registered nurse's individual profile the record of any criminal conviction or charge for a felony or serious misdemeanor, final disciplinary action by a licensing board in another state or a malpractice court judgment, arbitration award or settlement that resulted from providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with the scope and standards of advanced practice registered nursing practice if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
The board shall not take adverse action on an application for registration of a qualified nurse based on a criminal or civil action or disciplinary action by a licensing board of another state or a medical malpractice claim in another state arising from such health care services that, as provided, would have been lawful and consistent with the standard of conduct for nurses if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate the practice of nursing in any other state.< /p>
SECTION 16. Section 128 of said chapter 112, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;inclusive&rdquo;, in line 4, the following words:- ; provided, however, that notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, no person shall be subject to discipline by the board, including the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration or reprimand, censure or monetary fine, for providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with the standard of conduct adopted by the board by regulation if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth; provided further, that the board shall not take adverse action on an application for registration of a qualified psychologist based on a criminal or civil action or disciplinary action by a licensing board of another state that arises from such health care services that, as provided, would have been lawful and consistent with the standard of conduct adopted by the board by regulation if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate the practice of psychology in any other state.
SECTION 17. Section 137 of said chapter 112, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;practice&rdquo;, in line 8, the following words:- ; provided, however, that notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, no person shall be subject to discipline by the board, including the revocation, suspension or cancellation of the certificate of registration or reprimand, censure or monetary fine, for providing or assisting in the provision of reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services, as those terms are defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or for any judgment, discipline or other sanction arising from such health care services if the services as provided would have been lawful and consistent with the standards of professional practice and conduct for social workers if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth; provided further, that the board shall not take adverse action on an application for registration of a qualified social worker based on a criminal or civil action or disciplinary action by a licensing board of another state that arises from such health care services that, as provided, would have been lawful and consistent with the standards of professional practice and conduct for social workers if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate the practice of social work in any other state.
SECTION 18. Section 10A of chapter 118E of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the words &ldquo;coverage for&rdquo;, in line 1, the following words:- abortion, as defined in section 12K of chapter 112, abortion-related care,.
SECTION 19. Said section 10A of said chapter 118E, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by adding the following paragraph:-
Coverage provided under this section shall not be subject to any deductible, coinsurance, copayment or any other cost-sharing requirement. Coverage offered under this section shall not impose unreasonable restrictions or delays in the coverage.
SECTION 20. Chapter 147 of the General Laws is hereby amended by adding the following section:- Section 63. (a) As used in this section, the following words shall have the following meanings unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
&ldquo;Law enforcement agency of the commonwealth&rdquo;, any state, municipal, college or university police department, sheriff's department, correctional facility, prosecutorial office, court, probation office, or a program of more than 1 of any such entity, or any other non-federal entity in the commonwealth charged with the enforcement of laws or the custody of detained persons.
(b) Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary and except as required by federal law, no officer or employee of a law enforcement agency of the commonwealth, while acting under color of law, shall provide information or assistance to a federal law enforcement agency or any other state's law enforcement agency or any private citizen or quasi-law enforcement agent in relation to an investigation or inquiry into services constituting legally-protected health care activity, as defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, if such services would be lawful as provided if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
SECTION 21. Section 47F of chapter 175 of the General Laws, as appearing in the 2020 Official Edition, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;of&rdquo;, in line 20, the following words:- abortion, as defined in section 12K of chapter 112, abortion-related care.
SECTION 22. Said section 47F of said chapter 175, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by inserting after the third paragraph the following 3 paragraphs:-
Coverage provided under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not be subject to any deductible, coinsurance, copayment or any other cost-sharing requirement; provided, however, that deductibles, coinsurance or copayments shall be required if the applicable plan is governed by the federal Internal Revenue Code and would lose its tax-exempt status as a result of the prohibition on deductibles, coinsurance or copayments for these services. Coverage offered under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not impose unreasonable restrictions or delays in the coverage.
Benefits for an enrollee under this section shall be the same for the enrollee's covered spouse and covered dependents.
A policy of accident and sickness insurance that is purchased by an employer that is a church or qualified church-controlled organization, as those terms are defined in subsection (j) of section 47W, shall be exempt from covering abortion or abortion-related care at the request of the employer. An employer that invokes the exemption under this section shall provide written notice to prospective enrollees prior to enrollment with the plan and such notice shall list the health care methods and services for which the employer will not provide coverage for religious reasons.
SECTION 23. Section 193U of said chapter 175, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;specialty&rdquo;, in line 14, the following words:- ; provided further, that no medical malpractice insurer shall discriminate against a provider or adjust or otherwise calculate a provider's risk classification or premium charges on the basis that, applying the definitions of section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12: (i) the health care provider offers reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services that are unlawful in another state; (ii) another state's laws create potential or actual liability for those services; or (iii) abusive litigation against a provider concerning reproductive health care services or gender-affirming health care services resulted in a judgment against the provider, if such health care services would be lawful and consistent with good medical practice as provided if they occurred entirely in the commonwealth.
SECTION 24. Section 8H of chapter 176A of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the words &ldquo;expense for&rdquo;, in line 8, the following words:- abortion, as defined in section 12K of chapter 112, abortion-related care,.
SECTION 25. Said section 8H of said chapter 176A, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by striking out, in lines 9 and 10, the words &ldquo;to the same extent that benefits are provided for medical conditions not related to pregnancy&rdquo;.
SECTION 26. Said section 8H of said chapter 176A, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by inserting after the third paragraph the following 3 paragraphs:-
Coverage provided under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not be subject to any deductible, coinsurance, copayment or any other cost-sharing requirement; provided, however, that deductibles, coinsurance or copayments shall be required if the applicable plan is governed by the federal Internal Revenue Code and would lose its tax-exempt status as a result of the prohibition on deductibles, coinsurance or copayments for these services. Coverage offered under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not impose unreasonable restrictions or delays in the coverage.
Benefits for an enrollee under this section shall be the same for the enrollee's covered spouse and covered dependents.
A policy of accident and sickness insurance that is purchased by an employer that is a church or qualified church-controlled organization, as those terms are defined in subsection (j) of section 8W, shall be exempt from covering abortion or abortion-related care at the request of the employer. An employer that invokes the exemption under this subsection shall provide written notice to prospective enrollees prior to enrollment with the plan and such notice shall list the health care methods and services for which the employer will not provide coverage for religious reasons.
SECTION 27. Section 4H of chapter 176B of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the words &ldquo;expense for&rdquo;, in lines 7 and 8, the following words:- abortion, as defined in section 12K of chapter 112, abortion-related care.
SECTION 28. Said section 4H of said chapter 176B, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by striking out, in lines 8 to 10, inclusive, the words &ldquo;to the same extent that benefits are provided for medical conditions not related to pregnancy&rdquo;.
SECTION 29. Said section 4H of said chapter 176B, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by inserting after the third paragraph the following 3 paragraphs:-
Coverage provided under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not be subject to any deductible, coinsurance, copayment or any other cost-sharing requirement; provided, however, that deductibles, coinsurance or copayments shall be required if the applicable plan is governed by the federal Internal Revenue Code and would lose its tax-exempt status as a result of the prohibition on deductibles, coinsurance or copayments for these services. Coverage offered under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not impose unreasonable restrictions or delays in the coverage.
Benefits for an enrollee under this section shall be the same for the enrollee's covered spouse and covered dependents.
A policy of accident and sickness insurance that is purchased by an employer that is a church or qualified church-controlled organization, as those terms are defined in subsection (j) of section 4W, shall be exempt from covering abortion or abortion-related care at the request of the employer. An employer that invokes the exemption under this subsection shall provide written notice to prospective enrollees prior to enrollment with the plan and such notice shall list the health care methods and services for which the employer will not provide coverage for religious reasons.
SECTION 30. Section 4I of chapter 176G of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the words &ldquo;coverage for&rdquo;, in lines 1 and 2, the following words:- abortion, as defined in section 12K of chapter 112, abortion-related care,.
SECTION 31. Said section 4I of said chapter 176G, as so appearing, is hereby further amended by inserting after the second paragraph the following 3 paragraphs:-
Coverage provided under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not be subject to any deductible, coinsurance, copayment or any other cost-sharing requirement; provided, however, that deductibles, coinsurance or copayments shall be required if the applicable plan is governed by the federal Internal Revenue Code and would lose its tax-exempt status as a result of the prohibition on deductibles, coinsurance or copayments for these services. Coverage offered under this section for abortion or abortion-related care shall not impose unreasonable restrictions or delays in the coverage.
Benefits for an enrollee under this section shall be the same for the enrollee's covered spouse and covered dependents.
A health maintenance contract that is purchased by an employer that is a church or qualified church-controlled organization, as those terms are defined in subsection (j) of section 4O, shall be exempt from covering abortion or abortion-related care at the request of the employer. An employer that invokes the exemption under this subsection shall provide written notice to prospective enrollees prior to enrollment with the plan and such notice shall list the health care methods and services for which the employer will not provide coverage for religious reasons.
SECTION 32. Section 4A of chapter 218 of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;filing&rdquo;, in line 20, the following words:- ; provided further, that, except as required by federal law, a judgment creditor shall not file a copy of any foreign judgment under this section if the judgment was issued in connection with any litigation concerning legally-protected health care activity, as defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12.
SECTION 33. Subsection (g) of said section 4A of said chapter 218, as so appearing, is hereby amended by adding the following sentence:- In any action filed to enforce a judgment issued in connection with any litigation concerning legally-protected health care activity, as defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, the court in the commonwealth hearing the action shall not give any force or effect to any judgment issued without jurisdiction.
SECTION 34. Section 11 of chapter 223A of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by adding the following paragraph:- Notwithstanding any other provision of this section to the contrary and except as required by federal law, a court of this commonwealth shall not order a person who is domiciled or found within this commonwealth to give testimony or statement or produce documents or other things for use in connection with any proceeding in a tribunal outside the commonwealth concerning legally-protected health care activity, as defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12.
SECTION 35. Section 59H of chapter 231 of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;case&rdquo;, in line 1, the following words:- , except a case brought pursuant to section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12,.
SECTION 36. Section 13A of chapter 233 of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;summons&rdquo;, in line 32, the following words:- , except that no justice or special justice shall issue a summons in a case, except as required by federal law, where prosecution is pending concerning legally-protected health care activity, as defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, or where a grand jury investigation concerning legally-protected health care activity has commenced or is about to commence for a criminal violation of a law of such other state unless the acts forming the basis of the prosecution or investigation would also constitute an offense if occurring entirely in the commonwealth.
SECTION 37. Section 21A of chapter 272 of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by striking out the third paragraph and inserting in place thereof the following paragraph:- This section shall not be construed to permit the sale or dispensing of prescription drugs or devices for the prevention of pregnancy or conception by a vending machine or similar device.
SECTION 38. Section 13 of chapter 276 of the General Laws, as so appearing, is hereby amended by striking out the first paragraph and inserting in place thereof the following 2 paragraphs:-
The governor may also surrender, on demand of the executive authority of any other state, any person in the commonwealth charged in such other state in the manner provided in section 14 with committing an act in this commonwealth, or in a third state, intentionally resulting in a crime in the state whose executive authority is making the demand, hereafter in this section and in sections 14 to 20P, inclusive, referred to as the demanding state, only when the acts for which extradition is sought would be punishable by the laws of the commonwealth if the consequences claimed to have resulted therefrom in the demanding state had taken effect in this commonwealth and the provisions of sections 11 to 20R, inclusive, not otherwise inconsistent shall apply to such cases even though the accused was not in the demanding state at the time of the commission of the crime and has not fled therefrom; provided, however, that the governor may, in the governor's discretion, make any such surrender conditional upon agreement by the executive authority of the demanding state that the person so surrendered will be held to answer no criminal charges of any nature except those set forth in the requisition upon which such person is so surrendered, at least until such person has been given reasonable opportunity to return to the commonwealth after the person's acquittal, if the person shall be acquitted, or after the person shall be released from confinement, if the person shall be convicted.
Except as required by federal law, the governor shall not surrender a person charged in another state as a result of engaging in legally-protected health care activity, as defined in section 11I&frac12; of chapter 12, unless the executive authority of the demanding state shall allege in writing that the accused was physically present in the demanding state at the time of the commission of the alleged offense and that thereafter the accused fled from the demanding state.
SECTION 39. Section 14 of said chapter 276, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting the after word &ldquo;state&rdquo;, in line 7, the following words:- only when the acts for which the demand for interstate rendition is sought would be punishable by the laws of the commonwealth, if the consequences claimed to have resulted therefrom in the demanding state had taken effect in this commonwealth.
SECTION 40. Section 20A of said chapter 276, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;thirteen&rdquo;, in lines 5 and 12 and 13, the following words:- , with the exception of cases for which the governor shall not surrender a person under said section 13.
SECTION 41. Section 20B of said chapter 276, as so appearing, is hereby amended by adding the following sentence:- This section shall not apply to cases arising under section 13 for which the governor shall not surrender a person.
SECTION 42. Section 20C of said chapter 276, as so appearing, is hereby amended by inserting after the word &ldquo;thirteen&rdquo;, in line 4, the following words:- , with the exception of cases for which the governor shall not surrender a person under said section 13.
SECTION 43. Not later than April 1, 2023, the department of public health, in consultation with Reproductive Equity Now, Inc., shall issue a report to the senate and house committees on ways and means and the joint committee on public health identifying areas of the commonwealth in which pregnant people do not have access to abortion, as defined in section 12K of chapter 112 of the General Laws, or birth care within a radius of 50 miles and providing recommendations to facilitate access to abortion and birth care in the identified areas. The report shall be made publicly available on the department's website.
SECTION 44. Sections 7, 8, 18, 19, 21, 22 and 24 to 31, inclusive, shall apply to all policies, contracts and certificates of health insurance subject to chapters 32A, 118E, 175, 176A, 176B and 176G of the General Laws that are delivered, issued or renewed on or after January 1, 2023.
SECTION 45. An institution, as defined in section 46 of chapter 15A of the General Laws, shall not be required to utilize money from its general fund or student fees for medication abortion readiness required under said section 46 of said chapter 15A until January 1, 2026.
SECTION 46. Each institution's first medication abortion readiness plan as required under subsection (b) of section 46 of chapter 15A of the General Laws shall be submitted to the department of public health not later than November 30, 2023 and the department shall review such plans for suitability by January 31, 2024.
SECTION 47. Subsections (c) and (d) of section 46 of chapter 15A of the General Laws shall take effect on February 1, 2024.
Approved, July 29, 2022.
Go Directly to a Session Law
Chapter
Type
Act
Resolve
Year
2026
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
1997
Go to Session Law
Most Popular Session Laws
Popular Session Laws
Year
Chapter
Chapter Name
2024
Ch. 135
AN ACT MODERNIZING FIREARM LAWS
2026
Ch. 163
AN ACT PROMOTING RULE OF LAW, OVERSIGHT, TRUST AND EQUAL CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT
2026
Ch. 101
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF SCITUATE TO ISSUE 4 ADDITIONAL LICENSES FOR THE SALE OF ALL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO BE DRUNK ON THE PREMISES
2026
Ch. 101
AN ACT MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2026 TO PROVIDE FOR SUPPLEMENTING CERTAIN EXISTING APPROPRIATIONS AND FOR CERTAIN OTHER ACTIVITIES AND PROJECTS
2026
Ch. 188
AN ACT PRIORITIZING PATIENT ACCESS TO CARE
2026
Ch. 137
AN ACT MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 2027 FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF THE DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, INSTITUTIONS, AND CERTAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH, FOR INTEREST, SINKING FUND, AND SERIAL BOND REQUIREMENTS, AND FOR CERTAIN PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTS
2024
Ch. 150
AN ACT RELATIVE TO THE AFFORDABLE HOMES ACT
2024
Ch. 238
AN ACT RELATIVE TO STRENGTHENING MASSACHUSETTS&#x2019; ECONOMIC LEADERSHIP
2024
Ch. 239
AN ACT PROMOTING A CLEAN ENERGY GRID, ADVANCING EQUITY AND PROTECTING RATEPAYERS
2026
Ch. 113
AN ACT RELATIVE TO TEACHER PREPARATION AND STUDENT LITERACY
&times;
Register for MyLegislature
Register With An Existing Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Register With Your Email Address
Email Address
Password
Confirm Password
Register
Registering...
Already have an account? Sign in here.
Forgot Password?
&times;
Sign in to MyLegislature
Sign In With Your Facebook or Google+ Account
Sign in with Facebook
Sign in with Google
Sign In With Your MyLegislature Account
Email*
Password*
Forgot Password?
Sign In
Signing In...
Not Registered? Click here.
Learn More Here! &raquo;
&times;
Forgot Password
Please enter your email address. If there is an account associated with that address, a password reset link will be mailed to you.
Email Address
Reset Password
Processing...
Cancel
&times;
Sign In Required
This feature is exclusive to users of MyLegislature
Sign In
Register
&times;
Search The Legislature
Search the Legislature
Search the Legislature
Search