Home
Admin
401-274-2652
800-662-5034
Welcome To Rhode Island Legal Services
Rhode Island Legal Services provides high quality legal assistance and representation to low-income individuals and eligible client groups in Rhode Island for the purpose of improving their economic condition and overall wellbeing by protecting and enforcing legal rights, stabilizing the family unit and communities where clients live, promoting self reliance, ending domestic violence, preventing homelessness, affording dignity to all people, and reaching out to groups with added burdens on their ability to access the civil justice system.
Rhode Island Legal Services, Inc.'s vision is for a fair, just and equitable legal system, which is accessible to all members of the community without discrimination and to eliminate barriers to justice through high quality legal services, education, and community partnerships. We envision a state where low-income people have access to services and resources to meet their basic needs and where all residents can vindicate their legal rights and be treated fairly throughout the civil justice system.
TICKETS NOW AVAILABLE
OUTREACH CALENDAR FOR THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER 2026
We're in the community.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE SEPTEMBER OUTREACH CALENDAR
DONATE TODAY!
Our mission is to provide legal representation to low-income people for the purpose of improving their economic and human condition by protecting and enforcing legal rights; stabilizing the family unit; promoting self reliance; reaching out to groups with added burdens on their access to the legal system and affording dignity to people. Please click the button below NOW to support this important work.
APPLY FOR HELP
While completing the application does not mean that RILS will be able to help you, once the application is submitted, and if it appears that you may qualify for our services, you will be contacted to verify the information you have given us in the application and to determine if we can assist you with your particular legal problem.
Our Program Areas
Public Benefits Group
Housing Stability Project
Foreclosure Prevention Project
Low Income Taxpayer Clinic
Family Preservation Project
Safe Family Project
Consumer Debt Group
Legal Services For Veterans Project
Responsible Parent Project
Volunteer Lawyer Program
Elder Protection Project
Education and Employment Law Group
Our Providence Office
56 Pine Street
4th Floor
Providence 02903
401-274-2652
Our Newport Office
50 Washington Square
Newport 02840
401-846-2264
Stay In Touch
RIFairHousing.org
LowIncomeTaxClinic.org
HelpRILaw.org
Follow Us
&copy; Rhode Island Legal Services . All Rights Reserved. Designed by BSL Systems Ltd