SC Child Abuse and Neglect Registry and Database
Submitting a Central Registry One-Time Request
Use a one-time request when you only need to submit a Child Abuse and Neglect Registry and Database
check occasionally. This option may be appropriate for an individual check, a name change, an out-of-
statechild care request, or a Child Care Scholarship Family, Friend, or Neighbor participant.
How do I submit a one-time request? https://providerportal.dss.sc.gov/
Action Details
Select Create Central Registry. From the left navigation menu,
choose Create Central Registry.
Watch for the email. One-time requests can only be completed electronically. After the
request is started, an email will be sent from
DONOTREPLY@DSS.SC.GOV to the person listed in the "Requestor
Name" field.
Use the secure link. The email will include a secure link for the requestor to provide the
information and consent needed for DSS to conduct a Child Abuse and
Neglect Registry and/or Database check.
Pay the fee, if applicable. A credit card is needed for paid requests. You will be directed to
SC.GOV to complete payment. The request is not submitted to DSS until
payment is complete and you return to the portal to submit the request.
Complete the electronic
signature.
Hold down the left mouse button and move the mouse to sign. You may
also use a touch screen.
Choose how results should be
returned.
Results will be sent by email or mail based
on the delivery method selected when the
request was submitted.
Important payment reminder
Do not close the browser after paying on SC.GOV. After payment is complete, scroll to the bottom of the
SC.GOV receipt page and select Continue to return to the portal. Then select Submit in the portal.
Paying the invoice on SC.GOV does not submit the request by itself.
South Carolina Department of Social Services | Central Registry and Database Portal | One Time Use
DSS Resource 2979 (7/22/2026)
South Carolina Department of Social Services | Central Registry and Database Portal | One Time Use
Fee note: Fees are waived only for Child Care Licensing requests for employment in a child care facility in
South Carolina or another state.
Who should I contact if I need help?
Topic Contact Use this for
Child Welfare CentralRegistryInfo@dss.sc.gov Adoptions, foster homes, and name
changes
Child Care Licensing 803-898-9020 SC child care centers, ABC
providers, and other states child
care providers
Please include enough information for DSS to identify the request when asking for assistance, such as the requestor
name, date submitted, and the type of request.
DSS Resource 2979 (7/22/2026)