November 2024 Page 1 of 2
Petition for Change of Name of Adult (no dissolution of marriage)
*Caution: this form requires protected information and the filing of a separate Protected Information Form.
In the Iowa District Court for County
Petition for Change of
Name of Adult
(no dissolution of marriage)
In re the Name Change of:
Petitioner Full name: first, middle, last
If you need assistance to participate in court due to a disability,
contact the disability coordinator (information at
www.iowacourts.gov/Representing_Yourself/ADAAccess).
Persons who are hearing or speech impaired may call Relay
Iowa TTY (1-800-735-2942). Disability coordinators cannot
provide legal advice.
Petitioner, for this Petition for Change of Name of Adult under Iowa Code chapter 674, states:
1. Petitioner’s present full name is ,
and petitioner resides in County, Iowa.
2. Petitioner is feet, inches tall; weighs lbs.; has color hair; and
color eyes.
3. Petitioner is a (race) (female/male) who was
born in (place) on (date)*.
4. Petitioner owns the following real property in Iowa (provide legal description):
5. Petitioner currently resides at .
and has also resided at the following prior addresses during the past five years:
Petition for Change of Name of Adult (no dissolution of marriage), cont.
November 2024 Page 2 of 2
6. Petitioner is (check one): □ unmarried or □ married.
If you check “married,” provide your spouse’s name:
If married, name of spouse
Note: If married, petitioner must give legal notice to your spouse of the filing of this petition.
7. The following minor children would be affected by the name change:
8. Petitioner desires a name change for the following reasons:
9. Petitioner has not previously requested a name change pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 674.
10. Check either A or B:
A. □ A certified copy of petitioner’s birth certificate is filed with this petition. Or,
B. □ A certified copy of petitioner’s birth certificate is not available because
(state reasons birth certificate is not available):
11. If petitioner’s birth certificate is not available, petitioner must file another form of identification
in place of the certified copy of the birth certificate. Such other form of identification may
include documents provided by the United States department of immigration and
naturalization service.
12. Petitioner requests the court to enter an order changing petitioner’s name:
From (present full name)
To (requested new name)
I certify under penalty of perjury and pursuant to the laws of the State of Iowa that the preceding
is true and correct.
Date:
Signature of Petitioner
/s/
Telephone number Printed name
Email address Mailing address