Skip to content
Healthcare
Transgender Healthcare
Services Menu
Search
Transgender Healthcare
Transgender Health and Legal Care
Whitman-Walker Health provides a full complement of services to transgender people and their families. We know that no two people have the same goals for themselves and we aim to provide services to meet those needs. These services may include primary care, behavioural health care, surgical referrals, assistance with name and gender change on legal documents, insurance navigation and other supportive services.
Contact Us
Call 202.797.4457 or email Transhealth@whitman-walker.org for more information about our Transgender Health services.
Name and Gender Change Clinic
Having identity documents, Social Security, and other legal records that accurately reflect one’s name and gender is critical for transgender people. We can help!
We assist clients from DC, Maryland, and Virginia with obtaining name changes and gender marker changes on their legal documents including updating licenses, birth certificates, Social Security records, passports, school records and more.
We offer Name and Gender Change Clinics in collaboration with TransLAW, to provide counseling and assistance with the name and gender change processes, including obtaining court orders, changing drivers’ licenses, passports, birth certificates, and other identity documents and public records. We can also help clients to collect needed letters from your medical providers and to seek assistance with court fees, where appropriate. For direct assistance from our Legal Services team, please email contact-legal@whitman-walker.org or call 202.939.7630 to schedule an intake.
Guides
Transgender Resource Guide: ( EN / ES )
&#8220;Combined&#8221; DMV Name and Gender Change Guide WWH 2025 ( EN / ES )
Frequently Asked Questions for Gender Affirming Services
What will my first visit for gender affirming care be like at Whitman-Walker?
At your first medical appointment, you will be asked to complete a basic history with your doctor or medical team member. You will also be asked to complete lab work to begin the process of establishing yourself as a patient of the health center. Our medical team will introduce you to some of Whitman-Walker’s support services. You can expect to discuss any goals for hormone therapy or surgical care—two things many folks look forward to in their care with us—during or after your second medical visit.
Do I have to be in mental health care to access hormones?
If you are at least 18 years old, we aim to follow an informed consent model for providing transgender health care. Mental Health therapy is not an absolute requirement for hormones Instead, your provider will ask about your goals for hormone therapy, and about your mental health history and substance use. You will discuss any specific concerns that hormone therapy may present to your current stability. Our goal is to provide you with complete care and, in turn, positive health outcomes.
For people under 18, we will collaborate with a mental health provider prior to starting medications to help ensure parents/guardians and the young person are in agreement with the Pediatrician about next steps.
What surgeries does Whitman-Walker offer referrals for?
Whitman-Walker has referred people for the following procedures related to gender dysphoria: chest reconstructive surgeries including breast augmentation and mastectomy; facial feminizing procedures including tracheal shave, rhinoplasty, mandibular lift, and forehead drop; hysterectomy; phalloplasty; metoidioplasty; vaginoplasty; orchiectomy. Our team of Specialty Navigators may be able to support additional procedures though there is not a guarantee. Some procedures (like laser hair removal /electrolysis) do not have any In Network providers, and our support for these services is limited.
What is the process for getting my referral and letters at Whitman-Walker Health?
Once you’ve had an appointment to review recent labs and discuss a surgical referral with your medical provider, you’ll be referred to work with a Specialty Navigator. Currently, our waitlist for a Navigator is about 8-10 weeks. Once linked, the Navigator will provide an Orientation to surgery referrals &#8211; explaining the referral process to you, discuss insurance coverage, and, if needed, schedule visits with a Behavioral Health Specialist to work on a letter of support. Your Navigator will stay connected through your process, helping to get your copies of your completed documents and/or sending them to surgeons directly. If you’re paying out-of-pocket, you can move through this process at your own pace and likely won’t need letters of support from Whitman-Walker. If your out-of-pocket surgeon still wants letters from Whitman-Walker, your process will look similarly. This process can take a few of months to complete, depending on your medical health status, our waitlist, and how much information a Behavioral Health Specialist might need.
How many mental health sessions will I need to schedule before getting my letters?
Our Behavioral Health Specialists and clinicians experienced in surgery support conduct sessions that discuss your mental health history, exploring your experience of Gender Dysphoria, and working on a thorough surgery preparation and recovery plan. Some times we need 1 session before we have enough information to write a letter of support; other times it may take 2 or 3 sessions. There is no set requirement for number of sessions; the clinician is working with you to meet any criteria that your insurance provider or surgeon has requested for your letter of support.
How many letters do I need for surgery?
It is up to you to confirm what kinds of documentation your insurance requires in order to authorize your procedure as medically necessary. Many commercial plans have updated guidelines in the last year or two, and you can request a copy of your Comprehensive Benefits Guide from your insurance provider to learn more about their coverage requirements.
For DC and VA medicaid, any surgery that is above your waist, or above your genitals, will require one letter from a Behavioral Health clinician and one letter from your medical provider. Any surgery that is below your waist will require one letter from two independent Behavioral Health clinicians (so, 2 behavioral letters) and one letter from your medical provider. For MD Medicaid, there is just 1 letter (total) needed for any procedure.
What happens if my surgery gets denied?
If your surgery is denied, your Specialty Navigator will speak with you about appealing that denial with our Legal Services team. The Navigator will need your consent to get you linked to that department. From there, you will learn about your situation regarding surgery denial, what an appeal will look like with Whitman-Walker support, and wait to hear whether your case is assigned to a lawyer. Not every denial requires ongoing legal support. Sometimes, our lawyers are able to troubleshoot with surgeons to simply re-submit the prior authorization.
What surgeons do you recommend I work with?
We keep a list of surgeons we commonly refer to, and we encourage everyone to do some research to learn about surgeons in the area. We do not have a formal referral network with any one hospital system or private practice surgeon, and really want you to get what you need out of your own relationship with a surgeon. For some public plans, like DC, MD, or VA medicaid, there may only be 1 surgeon in the area who accepts your insurance and performs a specific procedure.
I am under 18, can I get gender affirming care at Whitman-Walker? Do I have to tell my parents?
Whitman-Walker serves youth ages 10-24 years old. To start hormones, the first step is a visit with your Whitman-Walker primary care provider . To schedule this appointment, you will need parental consent. After discussing your medical history – and once your medical provider feels that you are medically ready to begin hormones -you will be referred for mental health assessment with a mental health provider. This assessment may include a minimum of 3-6 sessions, and may include the recommendation to continue ongoing therapy or a psychiatry referral. We also provide individual and group therapy , and free trauma-focused mental health care to youth who have experienced or witnessed a crime. Youth do not need parental consent to engage in mental health services. However, you and your mental health provider will discuss how your parents or caregivers may be involved in your care. Therapy includes a variety of techniques including art, music, and sand play. To learn more about Youth Mental Health, please call 202.207.2361 .
Do you have a list of area support groups?
See our list of Affirming Support groups in the DC, Maryland and Virginia area here .
Ask Me Anything About Whitman-Walker
Get fast, informative answers
Search