NDLSHC Page 1 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Instructions for a Name Change – Adult (18 Years Old or Older)
Important! Read Before Using These Forms and Instructions!
ND Legal Self Help Center staff and court employees can’t help you fill out forms. If you’re
unsure is these forms and instructions suit your circumstances, consult a lawyer.
ND Legal Self Help Center forms aren’t official court forms. Judges and courts aren’t required
to accept Center forms. There’s no guarantee Center forms will be accepted. Use at your own
risk.
If you need legal advice or legal representation, consult a lawyer licensed to practice in North
Dakota. Go to ndcourts.gov/legal-self-help/finding-a-lawyer for information about finding a
lawyer to represent you.
When you represent yourself, you’re expected to know and follow the law, including:
• State or federal laws that apply to your case;
• Case law, also called court opinions, that applies to your case; and
• Court rules that apply to your case, which may include:
o North Dakota Rules of Civil Procedure;
o North Dakota Rules of Court;
o North Dakota Rules of Evidence;
o North Dakota Administrative Rules and Orders; and
o Any local court rules.
Links to the state laws, case law, and court rules can be found at ndcourts.gov.
A glossary with definitions of legal terms is available at ndcourts.gov/legal-self-help.
When you represent yourself, you’re held to the same requirements and responsibilities as a
lawyer, even if you don’t understand the rules or procedures
These instructions and forms aren’t a complete statement of the law. They cover the basic
procedure for petitioning a North Dakota state district court for the name change of an adult. If
the forms don’t fit your circumstances, consult a lawyer. There’s no guarantee that all judges and
courts will accept forms available through the ND Legal Self Help Center. The Center isn’t
responsible for any consequences that may result from the forms or information provided.
Use these forms and instructions at your own risk.
Requirements for name changes are found in North Dakota Century Code Chapter 32-28.
Review the Chapter carefully.
Note: You (Petitioner) must be a resident of the North Dakota county where you’re filing the
Petition for at least six months before filing the Petition
Also Note: You (Petitioner) must be either a citizen or a permanent resident alien of the
United States.
NDLSHC Page 2 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Can North Dakota Vital Records Change the Sex Designation on My
Birth Certificate?
Sex: The biological state of being male or female, based on an individual’s
nonambiguous sex organs, chromosomes, or endogenous hormone profiles at birth.
No, the sex designation on a birth record of an individual born in North Dakota may not be
amended or corrected under N.D.C.C. Section 23-02.1-25.1 due to general identity change
unless:
a. The sex of the individual was listed incorrectly on the original birth record as a result of
a scrivener’s error (a clerk, notary, or person who wrote or filled out the document) or
data entry error.
b. The sex of the individual was misidentified on the original birth record and the request
for correction is accompanied by a copy of the results of chromosomal, molecular,
karyotypic, DNA, or genetic testing that identifies the sex of the individual, together with
an affidavit from the health care facility, health care professional, or laboratory testing
facility that conducted the test or analyzed the test results, attesting to the test results
and the accuracy of test results.
c. The sex of the individual was changed with anatomically correct genitalia for the
identified sex as certified by a medical provider.
Note: The North Dakota Legal Self Help Center doesn’t have forms to amend or correct the sex
on a North Dakota birth certificate.
You May Ask the Judge Assigned to Your Case to Waive the
Publication Requirement
North Dakota law requires that you publish notice of your name change in the newspaper
before the judge assigned to your case can consider granting your name change. An Affidavit
of Declaration, or Declaration of Publication, is required, which is provided by the newspaper.
However, before you publish notice of your name change, you may ask the judge to waive the
publication requirement if (continues on next page):
NDLSHC Page 3 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
1. You’re only asking for a change to your first or middle name; or
2. You’re a victim of domestic violence as defined by North Dakota Century Code Section
14-07.1-01, which states:
“Domestic violence includes physical harm, bodily injury, sexual activity
compelled by physical force, assault, or the infliction of fear of imminent physical
harm, bodily injury, sexual activity compelled by physical force, or assault, not
committed in self-defense, on the complaining family or household members.”
Important: North Dakota law only allows a judge to consider the two reasons listed above for
waiving the publication requirement.
If the judge doesn’t grant your request to waive publication in the newspaper, you need to
publish Notice in the newspaper and file an Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of
Publication, with the court. The Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication, is
provided by the newspaper after publication of the Notice is complete.
This packet of forms and instructions includes the option of asking the judge to waive
publication.
Criminal History Record Checks
Review the requirements for getting a criminal history record check Before you start the
name change petition process. The process can take weeks.
The judge assigned to your name change case is required to determine whether you have a
criminal record Before they can grant your name change.
The judge may require you to get a criminal history background check for North Dakota or any
other state. You’re required to pay all costs associated with the criminal history record check.
Some judges require all adults petitioning for names changes to get a criminal history
background check. Other judges decide after reviewing the name change Petition and other
supporting documents.
Before you start the name change process, contact the Clerk of Court and ask if you’re
required to get a criminal history record check. If the Clerk of Court doesn’t know, the judge
decides after you file your Petition and other supporting documents for your name change.
If the judge requires you to complete a criminal history background check, you may be directed
to the following website to get your criminal history background check: edo.cjis.gov/#/.
NDLSHC Page 4 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Overview of the Adult Name Change Process
Step 1. Publish the Notice of Petition for Name Change in the Newspaper.
Get an Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication, from the newspaper.
Or, Skip Step 1 and Step 2 if Asking the Judge to Waive Publication.
Step 2. Wait 30 Calendar Days Before Completing the Rest of the Name Change Forms.
Gather any written objections you receive after publication of the Notice.
If you ask the judge to waive publication, you won’t gather written objections.
Step 3. Complete the Rest of the Name Change Forms.
Step 4. 30 Days After Publication, File the Original Petition, Declaration, Confidential
Information Form, Notice of Petition for Name Change, Order Granting Name
Change (Proposed), Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication, and any
Written Objections with the Clerk of Court.
Pay the $160.00 filing fee or file the completed Petition to waive filing fees.
Or, if Asking the Judge to Waive Publication, File the Original Petition, Declaration,
Confidential Information Form, and Order Granting Name Change (Proposed).
Pay the $160.00 filing fee or file the completed Petition to waive filing fees.
Step 5. Get Your Criminal History Background Check if the Judge Requires One.
Step 6. The Judge Decides Whether to Grant the Name Change
The judge may make a decision without holding a hearing, or may require you to
appear at a hearing before making a decision.
Step 7. Request a Certified Copy of the Order Granting Name Change
Forms Needed For an Adult Name Change
1. Notice of Petition For Name Change
2. Petition for Name Change
3. Declaration of Petitioner
4. Confidential Information Form
5. Order Granting Name Change (Proposed)
NDLSHC Page 5 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Steps for Petitioning for an Adult Name Change
Important: You may skip Step 1 and Step 2 Only if you plan to ask the judge assigned to
your name change case to waive publication in the newspaper. If you plan to ask the judge to
waive publication, go directly to Step 3.
The judge may waive publication in the newspaper only if:
1. You’re only asking for a change to your first or middle name; or
2. You’re a victim of domestic violence as defined by North Dakota Century Code
Section 14-07.1-01, which states:
“Domestic violence includes physical harm, bodily injury, sexual activity
compelled by physical force, assault, or the infliction of fear of imminent physical
harm, bodily injury, sexual activity compelled by physical force, or assault, not
committed in self-defense, on the complaining family or household members.”
If the judge doesn’t waive publication in the newspaper, go back and complete Step 1 and
Step 2. File an Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication, (provided by the
newspaper) with the court after publication is complete.
Step 1:
Complete the Notice of Petition for Name Change Form and
Publish the Notice of Petition for Name Change in the Newspaper
Important: An Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication, is required unless
waived by the judge assigned to your name change case. If you plan to ask the judge to waive
publication, skip Step 1 and Step 2. Go directly to Step 3.
Complete Notice of Petition for Name Change
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Notice of Petition for Name Change form:
• Fill in the name of the North Dakota county where you plan to file your Petition (where
you live).
• Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name.
NDLSHC Page 6 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 Fill in the first paragraph of the Notice of Petition for Name Change form:
• Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name.
• Fill in your requested first, middle (if any), and last legal name.
 Date and sign the Notice of Petition for Name Change form:
• Print your name and address.
O If your mailing address is different from your street address, include both addresses.
Write or type your mailing address in the blank space to right of the address block.
Publish the Notice of Petition for Name Change in the Newspaper
Caution: N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02 doesn’t say how many times the Notice of Petition for Name
Change must be printed in the newspaper. N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02 only states that before a judge
can order a name change, the Petitioner must have given 30 days previous notice in the official
newspaper of the county where the Petitioner lives. North Dakota Legal Self Help Center staff
can’t interpret the law for you, as this requires legal advice. Center staff can’t give you legal
advice under any circumstances. If you want the law interpreted for you, consult a lawyer.
 Have the completed Notice of Petition for Name Change published in the official county
newspaper where you plan to file the Petition (where you live).
Publication can be done in a print edition, in an e-edition, or both.
 After publication is complete, the newspaper will give you an Affidavit of Publication, or
Declaration of Publication. Make a copy for your records. (You file the original with the
clerk of court in Step 4.)
Important: Documents can’t be filed with the clerk of court until there has been 30
calendar days previous notice in the newspaper.
Step 2:
Wait 30 Calendar Days Before Completing the Rest of the Name Change Forms
The forms in this packet require you, the Petitioner, to tell the judge whether you received any
objections to your name change in the 30 days after you published Notice in the newspaper.
NDLSHC Page 7 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
If you use this packet of forms, you Must wait 30 calendar days from the day after
publication before you complete the remaining name change forms.
 Calculate 30 calendar days (see Rule 6 of the North Dakota Rules of Civil Procedure):
• Don’t include the date the Notice of your name change was published;
• Count forward by calendar days, including Saturdays, Sundays, and North Dakota state
holidays; and
• Include the 30th day, but if the 30th day is a Saturday, Sunday, or North Dakota state
holiday, the deadline moves forward to the end of the next day that isn’t a Saturday,
Sunday, or North Dakota state holiday.
 If you receive written objections after the Notice is published, make copies of the written
objections for your records. (You file the originals with the clerk of court in Step 4.)
Step 3:
Complete the Rest of the Name Change Forms
Complete the Petition for Name Change
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Notice of Petition for Name Change form:
• Fill in the name of the North Dakota county where you plan to file your Petition (where
you live).
• Leave the case number blank! The case number is assigned by the clerk of court when
you file the Petition and other documents in Step 4.
• Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name.
 1. Review this paragraph.
 2. Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name.
 3. Fill in your current address, city, county and zip code in North Dakota.
 4. Fill in your current North Dakota county and the month and year you began living in
the county.
• If you haven’t lived in your current North Dakota county for at least 6 months, you
can’t use these forms.
NDLSHC Page 8 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 5. Put a checkmark () next to the option that’s accurate for your situation. Don’t put a
checkmark in both options.
 6. Stop!! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 7. Fill in your first, middle (if any), and last legal name as you want it to be if the judge
grants your name change.
 8. This paragraph tells the judge the reasons you’re asking for a name change are in the
separate Declaration that you complete and file with the Petition.
 9. Put a checkmark () next to the statement that’s accurate for your situation.
Note: The judge may require you to get a statewide and national criminal records check
at your own cost.
• If you have a felony conviction under a law of North Dakota, or a law of another
state, or the federal government, your request for a name change is assumed to be
made in bad faith, to defraud or mislead, to cause injury to an individual, or to
compromise public safety. Your name change may not be granted unless you prove
by clear and convincing evidence that your request isn’t based on an intent to
defraud or mislead, is made in good faith, won’t cause injury to an individual, and
won’t compromise public safety.
 10. Stop!! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 11. Put a checkmark () next to the statement that’s accurate for your situation.
• Checkmark the first box if you completed Step 1 and Step 2 and published your
notice of name change in the newspaper. Fill in the notice information.
• Checkmark the second box if you’re asking the judge to waive the publication of the
Notice. Checkmark the reason or reasons why.
o If the judge doesn’t waive publication in the newspaper, go back and complete
Step 1 and Step 2. File an Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication,
(provided by the newspaper), with the court.
 12. Put a checkmark () next to the statement that’s accurate for your situation.
 13. No additional information is required for this paragraph.
NDLSHC Page 9 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 Wherefore Paragraph:
• (First box): Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name.
• (Second box): Fill in your requested first, middle (if any), and last legal name as you want
it to be if the judge grants your name change.
 Date and sign the Petition for Name Change form:
• Print your name and address.
o If your mailing address is different from your street address, include both addresses.
Write or type your mailing address in the blank space to the right of the address
block.
Complete the Declaration of Petitioner
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Declaration of Petitioner form:
• Fill in the caption exactly like the caption of your Petition for Name Change form.
 Fill in the first paragraph of the Declaration of Petitioner form:
• Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name.
 1. Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name. This must match
Paragraph 2 of your Petition for Name Change.
 2. Put a checkmark () next to the same option as Paragraph 5 of your Petition for Name
Change.
 3. Fill in the number of years and months you’ve lived in North Dakota.
 4. Fill in the North Dakota county and month and year exactly like Paragraph 4 of your
Petition for Name Change.
 5. Fill in your place of birth.
• If you’re a U.S. citizen, list your city and state of birth.
• If you’re a U.S. permanent resident alien, list your city and country of birth.
 6. Fill in your year of birth. (You list your full date of birth on the Confidential Information
form.)
NDLSHC Page 10 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
 7. Fill in your first, middle (if any), and last legal name as you want it to be if the judge
grants your name change. This must match Paragraph 7 of your Petition for Name
Change.
 8. State the reasons you want to change your name.
• If you need additional space for your statement, don’t write on the back of the form.
Write on one side of a new sheet (or sheets) of paper and put a checkmark () next
to “Additional sheets attached” on page 8.
• If you have criminal convictions under state or federal law, explain how your request
isn’t based upon an intent to defraud or mislead, is made in good faith, won’t cause
injury to an individual, and won’t compromise public safety.
 9. Put a checkmark () in the same checkbox as Paragraph 9 or your Petition for Name
Change.
• If you’ve been convicted of a crime or crimes under North Dakota law, the law of
another state or federal law, list each conviction. For each conviction, include the
charge, the classification of the offense, the name of the court in which you were
convicted, and the year of the conviction.
• If you have a felony conviction (or convictions) the judge may not grant the name
change unless you provide clear and convincing evidence to the judge that your
request isn’t based upon an intent to defraud or mislead, is made in good faith,
won’t cause injury to an individual, and won’t compromise public safety.
• If you need additional space to answer Paragraph 9, don’t write on the back of the
form. Write on one side of a new sheet (or sheets) of paper and put a checkmark ()
next to “Additional sheets attached.”
 10. Stop!! If this statement isn’t accurate, you can’t use these forms.
 11. Put a checkmark () in the same checkbox as Paragraph 11 of your Petition for Name
Change.
• If you’re asking the judge to waive publication due to domestic violence, explain in
detail. You must give evidence satisfactory to the judge that you’ve been a victim of
domestic violence. (See definition of domestic violence on Page 2.)
• If you need additional space for your statement, don’t write on the back of the form.
Write on one side of a new sheet (or sheets) of paper and put a checkmark () next
to “Additional sheets attached.”
NDLSHC Page 11 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
• If the judge doesn’t waive publication in the newspaper, you need to complete
Step 1 and Step 2 and file an Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication,
(provided by the newspaper), with the court.
 12. Put a checkmark () in the same checkbox as Paragraph 12 of your Petition for Name
Change.
• If you received written objections to the Petition for Name Change, list the names of
the people who objected and their relationship to you.
• You file the written objections with the clerk of court in Step 4.
 13. Read this paragraph carefully.
• By signing, you’re declaring everything in this Declaration is true and correct.
• Fill in the date, city, county, state, and country where you sign the Declaration;
• Sign the Declaration; and
• Print your name, address, telephone number, and email address.
Complete the Confidential Information Form
Note: This document Won’t be accessible to the public. See Rule 3.4 of the North Dakota
Rules of Court for privacy protections for documents filed with the court.
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the Confidential Information Form:
• Fill in the caption exactly like the caption of your Petition for Name Change form.
 Petitioner’s current, full legal name:
• Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name. This must match Paragraph
2 of your Petition for Name Change.
 Fill in your birthdate information:
• On the “Date of Birth” line, fill in your full date of birth (month/day/year).
• On the “Year of Birth” line, fill in your year of birth only.
 Date and sign your name, print your name, address, telephone number, and email
address.
NDLSHC Page 12 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Complete the Order Granting Name Change (Proposed)
 Fill in the top part (caption) of the proposed Order Granting Name Change form:
• Fill in the caption exactly like the caption of your Petition for Name Change form.
 1. Fill in the name of the City and the name of the County where you plan to file the
Petition.
 2. Fill in your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name. This must match
Paragraph 2 of your Petition for Name Change.
 3. Fill in your requested first, middle (if any), and last legal name. This must match
Paragraph 7 of your Petition for Name Change.
 4. Fill in your birth year only.
 5. Skip the fifth paragraph.
 6. Fill in both boxes in the sixth paragraph:
• Fill in the first box with your current first, middle (if any), and last legal name. This must
match Paragraph 2 of your Petition for Name Change.
• Fill in the second box with your requested first, middle (if any), and last legal name. This
must match Paragraph 7 of your Petition for Name Change.
Stop!! Don’t date or sign this document.
Step 4:
File the Following, Completed Documents with the Clerk of Court
Contact information for clerks of court is available at ndcourts.gov/court-locations.
File your completed name change documents with the Clerk of Court in the North Dakota
county where you’ve resided for at least 6 months before filing the Petition.
Note: You must pay an $160.00 filing fee.
If you can’t afford to pay the $160.00 filing fee, forms and instructions to ask the judge to
waive the filing fee are available at ndcourts.gov/legal-self-help/fee-waiver.
NDLSHC Page 13 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
File the completed fee waiver forms at the same time as your name change documents. (Make
sure you have a copy of the waiver forms for your files!)
Two options for filing are provided. Follow A or B according to the steps you took above:
 A. If you published Notice in the newspaper (completed Step 1 and Step 2), file the
following:
• Petition For Name Change;
• Declaration of Petitioner;
• Confidential Information Form;
• Notice of Petition for a Name Change;
• Affidavit of Publication, or Declaration of Publication, (provided to you by the
newspaper);
• All written objections you received (if any); and
• Order Granting Name Change (Proposed).
**Make sure you have a copy of every document for your files!
 B. If you didn’t publish Notice in the newspaper (skipped Step 1 and Step 2) because
you’re asking the judge to waive publication, file the following:
• Petition For Name Change;
• Declaration of Petitioner;
• Confidential Information Form; and
• Order Granting Name Change (Proposed).
**Make sure you have a copy of every document for your files!
If the Judge Doesn’t Waive Publication
If you asked the judge to waive publication and the judge denies your request to waive the
publication requirements, the court will notify you.
• Go back and complete Step 1 and Step 2.
• File the completed Notice of Petition for Name Change and Affidavit of Publication, or
Declaration of Publication, with the court.
NDLSHC Page 14 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
• File the originals of all objections to the name change you receive within 30 calendar
days of publishing the Notice. Make copies of the objections for your records.
Step 5:
Get Your Criminal Background Check
Stop!! Only complete this step if the Judge requires you to get a background check!!
After you file the documents listed above, the court notifies you if a criminal history
background check is required. You’re required to pay all costs associated with the criminal
history record check.
If the judge requires you to complete a criminal history background check, you may be directed
to the following website to get your criminal history background check: edo.cjis.gov/#/.
Step 6:
The Judge Decides Whether to Grant the Name Change
**If the judge requires a hearing:
• A hearing isn’t required for Petitions for Name Changes.
• However, the judge assigned to your name change case may decide a hearing is
necessary. The Clerk of Court notifies you with the date, time, and location of the
hearing, if the judge decides a hearing is necessary.
• If you’re required to attend a hearing, be prepared to prove everything you included in
your Petition and Declaration forms.
**If you have a criminal history:
• N.D.C.C. § 32-28-02(5) states “if the court issues a name change order for a petitioner
who has criminal history in this or any other state, the court, within ten days after the
issuance of the change of name order, shall report the name change to the bureau of
criminal investigation.”
Your name isn’t changed until the judge signs an Order granting the name change.
NDLSHC Page 15 of 15 NC Inst/Rev May 2026
Step 7:
Request a Certified Copy of the Order Granting Name Change and
Confidential Information Form
If the judge grants your name change, you receive a copy of the Order Granting Name Change.
However, a certified copy (or copies) of the Order Granting Name Change may be necessary
to change your name with agencies, businesses, entities, etc.
Important: You also need to request a certified copy (or copies) of the Confidential
Information Form which must be attached to the Order Granting Name Change.
• If the Confidential Information Form isn’t attached, North Dakota Vital Records won’t
accept the Order Granting Name Change.
If a hearing was held, you can request the certified copies from the Clerk of Court’s Office
before you leave the courthouse. If the Order is signed by the judge, you may be able to receive
the copy that day.
If a hearing isn’t held, you can request certified copies from the Clerk of Court’s Office. Contact
information for clerks of court by county is available at ndcourts.gov/court-locations.
There is a cost for the copies:
• $10 for the first certified copy;
• $5 for each additional certified copy (if requested at the same time).