breadcrumb
In this section
Court-Ordered Name Change
We currently have a two (2) month processing turnaround time.
If you submitted an application with a processing fee, the date your check or money order is cashed is the date we received your request, which helps you estimate the time left for processing.
The turnaround times are estimations and are subject to fluctuate due to staffing availability.
We are working diligently to reduce the turnaround times. If your request has not been processed after two (2) months, please call us at 360-236-4300. We appreciate your patience, thank you.
We only change the names on birth certificates for:
People who were born in Washington State.
Parents who have had a legal name change and are changing their name on a birth certificate for a child who was born in Washington State.
Changing a Birth Certificate After a Court-Ordered Name Change
ATTENTION: Starting January 1, 2020, certified copies of court orders will not be returned to customers.
To request a change to a birth certificate after a court ordered legal name change, send:
A CERTIFIED copy of the court-order name change. The court order will not be returned to you. Certified copies of court orders have an original signature or raised seal from the court clerk. We cannot accept photo copies .
AND one of the following:
A completed Court Order Legal Name Change Request Form (DOH 422-126)
A letter with the following six pieces of information as listed on current birth certificate:
Name on record (first, middle, last)
Date of birth (month, day, year)
Place of birth (city or county)
Mother/Parent full name listed on certificate (first, middle, last)
Father/Parent full name listed on certificate (first, middle, last)
Contact information (return mailing address and phone number)
A photo copy or certified copy of the birth certificate. We will not return the certified copy. If the certified copy was issued within one year, we will replace it at no charge.
If you would like a certified copy of the birth certificate reflecting the change, send:
A certified copy of the birth certificate for replacement. We will exchange birth certificates up to one (1) year from the date issued at no charge. The date issued is in the top right hand corner of the birth certificate. A copy of your photo ID and, if necessary, documentation verifying proof of relationship are required.
OR
A Birth Certificate Order Form (DOH 422-182) (PDF) ( en español ) for a birth certificate. A personal check or money order of $25 for each birth certificate(s) you are purchasing.
Mail In-Person
By Mail
Center for Health Statistics
P.O. Box 47814
Olympia, WA 98504-7814
Ordering a certificate with a correction request
Send completed certificate order form with your correction request. Include all required documents referenced on the certificate application instruction page.
Certificate will be issued after the correction has been processed.
Birth Certificate Application ( en español )
Death Certificate Application ( en español )
Marriage & Divorce Application ( en español )
Exchanging a certificate with a correction request
If you currently have a certified copy of a certificate that was issued less than one (1) year ago, send in the certified copy of the certificate with your correction request; we will exchange the certificate at no charge. A copy of your photo ID and, if necessary, documentation verifying proof of relationship are required.