Appointments / results:
612-543-5555
Fees and insurance
We take your insurance information or payment when you check in for your appointment. We do not turn patients away based on ability to pay.
Any charges you see in your MyChart account may take time to process. Please wait until after the 15 th of the month following your visit before making a payment or calling with questions.
Commercial insurance or Medicare
All lab work is billed to your insurance separately by Hennepin County Medical Center Laboratory. You may be responsible for any co-pays, co-insurance, or deductibles that your insurance does not cover .
Recommended actions:
For an estimate of what your lab work may cost, please contact your insurance company and ask: &ldquo;Are the Hennepin County Public Health Clinic and Hennepin County Medical Center Laboratory in-network with my plan?&rdquo;
Your insurance company can give you an estimate on lab costs. They will need these procedure codes to give you an accurate estimate:
Lab codes for insurance companies (DOCX, 1MB)
Please note: Gonorrhea and chlamydia tests could be billed up to three times for your visit, depending on which sites you need testing for: rectal, genital, and throat swabs. Be sure to mention this to your insurance company for an accurate estimate.
Medicaid
Your visit and lab costs are covered with your Medicaid insurance.
If you are a minor on a Medicaid plan and you have concerns about confidentiality, please call us with questions or mention this when you check in for your appointment.
No insurance
You do not need health insurance to be seen, and we will not turn you away based on your ability to pay. You will not be responsible for any costs associated with your visit.
Other forms of payment
If you have insurance, but decide not to use it, we'll ask you to pay for your visit when you check in at the front desk. We take cash or debit and credit cards (Visa and MasterCard).
We will not turn patients away based on ability to pay for services.
Help paying for birth control and family planning services
Some family planning services and transportation to and from those appointments are covered by the Minnesota Family Planning Program (MFPP) .
At Red Door, this includes:
Family planning office visits and education (for patients under age 30)
Some birth control methods (for patients under age 30)
Diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) found during a family planning visit
Eligibility
To get coverage under MFPP, you:
Must be a Minnesota resident
Must be a U.S. citizen or qualified noncitizen
Cannot be pregnant
Cannot be enrolled in Medical Assistance
Must meet the income limit of 200 percent of the federal poverty level
Apply
If you are eligible for MFPP, we can help you submit your application. Bring the following materials to your clinic visit or email them to reddoor@hennepin.us :
Completed MFPP Application
Photo ID
Proof of income - One of the following:
Recent pay stub
Statement from your employer
Most recent federal tax return if your income has not changed
Direct deposit statement from your bank
Statement from the place that sends your income
Billing support
Call 612-543-0162 with billing questions and someone will return your call.
Privacy
Your privacy is very important to us. If you have concerns about privacy, please let us know before your visit or when you check in.
Insurance
Call your insurance company to ask about privacy options:
&ldquo;How can I ensure my care will remain private?"
&ldquo;Where will my Explanation of Benefits be sent?&rdquo;
&ldquo;Can you please turn off paper Explanation of Benefits and instead send them to my personal email address?&rdquo;
Paperless billing
Turn on paperless billing in your MyChart, so mail is not sent to your address:
Log in to your MyChart account.
From the home page, select Your Menu.
Scroll to Billing Summary.
Select Paperless Settings.
Switch the Paperless Billing toggle to ON.
Select Save changes.
Email Red Door at reddoor@hennepin.us
Get your results on MyChart
Red Door is a Hennepin County Public Health program
Health Services Building
525 Portland Ave, 4th Floor
Minneapolis, MN 55415
Individuals pictured are models and are used for illustrative purposes only.
This page contains HIV prevention messages. Since HIV infection is spread through sexual practices and by sharing needles, our website addresses these topics.
Accessibility Privacy
&copy;2026 Hennepin County, Minnesota