Search
New Medicaid Requirements
New federal rules start October 1, 2026. You may need to act to keep your Medicaid.
Know What&#039;s Next
North Carolina Medicaid Assessment
The North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services is conducting an assessment of its Medicaid program.
Learn more and participate
Community Alternatives Program (CAP) Stakeholder meetings
NC Medicaid hosts quarterly CAP Stakeholder meetings to share updates and provide information about CAP programs.
More information and meeting schedule here
Connecting Communities & Medicaid (CCM)
Building stronger partnerships between NC Medicaid and communities across North Carolina.
Join the Conversation
Notice to Class of Proposed Settlement of Franklin v. Kinsley
This notice has information about a Jan. 13, 2023, court hearing on whether to approve the proposed Settlement Agreement. The Settlement provides important protections for North Carolina Medicaid beneficiaries.
Read the proposed settlement notice
SVG
I am Interested in NC Medicaid
Eligibility and How to Apply
SVG
I Have NC Medicaid
Information for Beneficiaries
SVG
I am a NC Medicaid Provider
Resources and Policy Updates
Ready to Apply for NC Medicaid?
Apply online, in person, by mail, or more. Here&#039;s how to do it and what you will need.
NC Medicaid Expansion
NC Medicaid expanded to more people in December 2023. More information about who is newly eligible and what’s covered.
NC Medicaid Enrollment Broker
New NC Medicaid beneficiaries can learn about their health care options and primary care providers, and enroll in a health care option.
Beneficiary Information
Learn about NC Medicaid Managed Care, eligibility, how to apply and more.
NC Medicaid Ombudsman
The NC Medicaid Ombudsman helps NC Medicaid beneficiaries understand Medicaid and NC Medicaid Managed Care. They can help beneficiaries when they are not able to solve problems with provider or health plan.
Healthy Opportunities Pilots
Research into evidence-based, non-medical interventions for North Carolina residents who are hungry, have unstable housing, lack reliable transportation or who have experienced interpersonal violence.
Transformation to NC Medicaid Managed Care
Find out more about the state’s move to managed care.
Get Involved
Public notices, proposed policies posted for public comment, fraud and abuse reporting.
Find Out More
Quick Links
Quality Management and Improvement
Behavioral Health and Intellectual/​Developmental Disabilities Tailored Plan
Provider Medicaid Bulletins
How to Apply for Medicaid
Medicaid State Plans
NC Section 1115 Demonstration Waiver
Get Email Alerts
Stay up to date with us. Get email alerts on latest news and upcoming events.
Email Address