Get Help
Share this page
Before submitting your request for legal assistance by the ACLU of Alabama please carefully read all the information below.
The ACLU of Alabama works to protect the civil rights and civil liberties guaranteed by the U.S. and Alabama Constitutions and laws. We cannot provide attorneys or legal advice in most cases, but we are very interested in hearing about civil rights or civil liberties issues you have experienced or witnessed in Alabama. Learning about your experiences helps us set priorities for our advocacy in the courts, in the legislature, and in the community, even when we cannot get directly involved in a specific case.
What kind of cases does the ACLU of Alabama consider?
Our legal department primarily works on criminal law reform; voting rights; reproductive justice; LGBQTIA+ rights; and First Amendment issues. Almost all our cases are brought against governments and government employees, rather than private individuals or companies. The ACLU of Alabama is not a general legal service and is unable to answer legal questions, review papers, conduct legal research, or provide information about the legal deadlines that might apply to your situation or provide you with other kind of assistance unless we accept your case.
We only accept complaints regarding civil liberties or civil rights violations that occurred in Alabama. If you are seeking assistance for a problem that occurred in another state, please refer to the national directory of ACLU offices .
What happens after I submit a request for legal assistance?
We review all written requests for assistance we receive, but because of the high volume of requests, we won’t be able to let you know if we’re unable to help. We will contact you only if we believe we can provide assistance or if we need additional information. Please do not expect a response because due to the volume of requests we receive, we cannot guarantee a response. We are unable to take most cases, even those concerning real injustices. If your complaint is not pursued by our office, it does not mean it is without merit.
Deadlines
All legal claims have time deadlines called the statute of limitations. The deadlines may be different depending on who violated your rights and which rights were violated. For some kinds of violations, you may need to file a claim with a government agency before you can sue, and these agencies have their own time deadlines. If you do not comply with the applicable statute of limitations, you may be legally barred from pursuing your claim in court. Contacting the ACLU of Alabama to describe your problem does not mean that the ACLU of Alabama represents you and will not stop the statute of limitations from running.
The ACLU of Alabama cannot give you advice about the deadlines that apply to your case. To protect your rights, please consult an attorney promptly to find out what deadline may apply in your case.
How can I submit a request for legal assistance?
All requests for legal assistance or legal inquiries must be submitted by (1) mailing your legal request, or (2) completing our online legal request form .
We do not take walk-ins or legal requests by phone, voicemail, or email.
Please mail your legal request or complaint to:
Legal Committee
ACLU of Alabama
P.O. Box 6179
Montgomery, AL 36106-0179