Skip to main content
Supreme Court October Session: The South Dakota Supreme Court will hear arguments on Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 7-8, 2026, in the Knudson School of Law Courtroom at the University of South Dakota in Vermillion. Learn about the cases .
Listen Live to Arguments
Minnehaha County
Part of the Second Judicial Circuit
Clerk of Court
425 N. Dakota Avenue
Sioux Falls, SD 57104-2470
Office Hours: 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
Phone: 605-367-5900
Fax: 605-367-5916
Email: minnehahacoclerk@ujs.state.sd.us
Court Services
425 N. Dakota Avenue
Sioux Falls, SD 57104-2465
Phone: 605-367-5930
Fax: 605-367-4907
Minnehaha County
Pay Fines Online
Traffic Notice
The reconstruction of Minnesota Avenue from Eighth Street to Brookings Avenue in Sioux Falls is affecting traffic access to the Minnehaha County Courthouse. Minnesota Avenue has been reduced to two lanes, and vehicles cannot access the courthouse from Minnesota Avenue. The traveling public is advised to approach the Minnehaha County Courthouse from the east or by using Dakota Avenue or Main Avenue. Road construction may also affect parking around the courthouse. The public is advised to allow for extra time when driving to the courthouse.
Minnehaha County Law Library Resources
Minnehaha County Law Library provides services and resources to the public.
A public access, open Wi-Fi signal is available throughout the courthouse. The name is Law_Library_Public, and there is no password.
A public access copy machine/scanner is available outside the entrance to the Clerk of Courts Civil/Small Claims Office on the second floor of the courthouse. Users can scan to or print from any USB thumb drive.
Two public computer terminals with access to court case information are located outside the Clerk of Courts Civil/Small Claims Office on the second floor of the courthouse and in the Clerk of Courts reception area on the first floor of the courthouse.
A set of South Dakota Codified Law (SDCL) books is located in an attorney/client conference room, Room 430, on the fourth floor of the courthouse.
Westlaw Legal Research Terminals
Westlaw is an online legal research service that provides access to case law, regulations and legal treatises. Westlaw access is available a few blocks from the courthouse at the Siouxland Downtown Library, 200 N. Dakota Ave. When entering the library from Dakota Avenue, two Westlaw terminals are available to the right. The terminals require a login, but the public can do so with a Siouxland Library card or library staff can provide a guest access pass.