Skip to main content
republished
A new federal rule will end Medicaid coverage for gender-affirming hormone therapies and procedures for kids under age 18.
The Centers for Medicare &#038; Medicaid Services announced Tuesday a rule that prohibits state Medicaid plans from covering gender-affirming procedures for minors and using federal Medicaid dollars for such care.
The rule also prohibits Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, funds from being used for kids under 19. CMS is defining such care to include puberty blockers, cross-sex hormones and surgical operations. The policy takes effect Oct. 13.
The Trump administration asserts that gender-affirming care is dangerous for kids, while many medical groups say it’s safe and can improve the mental health of children and adolescents. Surgical gender-affirming care operations are very rare for children.
For kids on Medicaid and CHIP who are currently on gender-affirming hormone therapy, the agency said state plans may continue to use federal money up to six months from now. Funds can still be used for mental health care for kids, the agency said.
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. asserted in a new release that gender-affirming procedures “carry serious risks and can cause irreversible harm.”
In response to several Trump proposals on gender-affirming care, many of the nation’s leading medical associations, including the American Medical Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics, have affirmed the safety of care that aligns with a child or teen’s gender identity.
“These rules are a baseless intrusion into the patient-physician relationship,” Dr. Susan Kressly, then president of the academy, said in a December statement . “Patients, their families, and their physicians — not politicians or government officials — should be the ones to make decisions together about what care is best for them.”
Stateline reporter Nada Hassanein can be reached at [email&#160;protected] .
This story was originally produced by Stateline , which is part of States Newsroom, a nonprofit news network which includes Daily Montanan, and is supported by grants and a coalition of donors as a 501c(3) public charity.
Author Info
Nada Hassanein
Nada Hassanein is a health care reporter for Stateline with a focus on inequities.
MORE FROM AUTHOR
More from our Newsroom
District Court strikes down ban on gender-affirming care for trans youth by Jordan Hansen May 14, 2025
Federal judge dismisses lawsuit over Title X grant funding for pregnancy prevention efforts by Kelcie Moseley-Morris September 21, 2026
As federal protections fade, disabled Americans fear a return to institutions by Anna Claire Vollers August 11, 2026