Tennessee Code Title 68. Health, Safety and Environmental Protection § 68-33-103
Current as of January 02, 2024 | Updated by Findlaw Staff
(a)(1) A healthcare provider shall not knowingly perform or offer to perform on a minor,
or administer or offer to administer to a minor, a medical procedure if the performance
or administration of the procedure is for the purpose of:
(A) Enabling a minor to identify with, or live as, a purported identity inconsistent
with the minor's sex; or
(B) Treating purported discomfort or distress from a discordance between the minor's
sex and asserted identity.
(2) Subdivision (a)(1) applies to medical procedures that are:
(A) Performed or administered in this state; or
(B) Performed or administered on a minor located in this state, including via telehealth,
as defined in § 63-1-155 .
(b)(1) It is not a violation of subsection (a) if a healthcare provider knowingly performs,
or offers to perform, a medical procedure on or administers, or offers to administer,
a medical procedure to a minor if:
(A) The performance or administration of the medical procedure is to treat a minor's
congenital defect, precocious puberty, disease, or physical injury; or
(B) The performance or administration of the medical procedure on the minor began prior
to the effective date of this act and concludes on or before March 31, 2024.
(2) For purposes of subdivision (b)(1)(A), “disease” does not include gender dysphoria,
gender identity disorder, gender incongruence, or any mental condition, disorder,
disability, or abnormality.
(3) For the exception in subdivision (b)(1)(B) to apply, the minor's treating physician
must certify in writing that, in the physician's good-faith medical judgment, based
upon the facts known to the physician at the time, ending the medical procedure would
be harmful to the minor. The certification must include the findings supporting the certification and must
be made a part of the minor's medical record.
(4) The exception in subdivision (b)(1)(B) does not allow a healthcare provider to perform
or administer a medical procedure that is different from the medical procedure performed
prior to the effective date of this act when the sole purpose of the subsequent medical
procedure is to:
(A) Enable the minor to identify with, or live as, a purported identity inconsistent
with the minor's sex; or
(B) Treat purported discomfort or distress from a discordance between the minor's sex
and asserted identity.
(c)(1) It is not a defense to any legal liability incurred as the result of a violation
of this section that the minor, or a parent of the minor, consented to the conduct
that constituted the violation.
(2) This section supersedes any common law rule regarding a minor's ability to consent
to a medical procedure that is performed or administered for the purpose of:
(A) Enabling the minor to identify with, or live as, a purported identity inconsistent
with the minor's sex; or
(B) Treating purported discomfort or distress from a discordance between the minor's
sex and asserted identity.
Previous Part of Code
Next Part of Code
Back to Chapter List
Copy
Cite this article: FindLaw.com - Tennessee Code Title 68. Health, Safety and Environmental Protection § 68-33-103 - last updated January 02, 2024 |
https://codes.findlaw.com/tn/title-68-health-safety-and-environmental-protection/tn-code-sect-68-33-103/
FindLaw Codes may not reflect the most recent version of the law in your jurisdiction. Please verify the status of the code you are researching with the state legislature before relying on it for your legal needs.
Was this helpful?
Yes
No
Easy to understand
Solved my problem
Other
Missing the information I need
Too complicated / too many steps
Out of date
Other
Submit
Cancel
Search all Tennessee Codes
Keyword or Citation (Required)
View Results
Welcome to FindLaw's Cases & Codes
A free source of state and federal court opinions, state laws, and the United States Code. For more information about the legal concepts addressed by these cases and statutes, visit FindLaw’s Learn About the Law.
Go to Learn About the Law
Did FindLaw Help You Understand This Legal Issue?
Make It a Preferred Google Search Source
Add to Google
Latest Blog Posts
10th Circuit Court of Appeals Proposes Rule To Require Certification of Filings Using Artificial Intelligence
Indiana Court Says DoorDash May Have Encouraged Distracted Driving
When Campaign Donations Become Illegal
A Legal Bodyslam? Federal Judge Approves ESPN’s Motion To Intervene in Civil Suit Against WWE
Explore all
For Legal Professionals
Practice Management
Corporate Counsel
Legal Technology
Law Students
Learn About The Law
Get help with your legal needs
FindLaw’s Learn About the Law features thousands of informational articles to help you understand your options. And if you’re ready to hire an attorney, find one in your area who can help.
Go to Learn About the Law
Need to Find an Attorney?
Search our directory by legal issue
Enter information in one or both fields (Required)
Legal Issue
More Options
Name Search
Browse Legal Issues
Browse Law Firms
Support
City, ZIP Code or County
Enter either your legal issue or location to continue
Find a Lawyer
Copied to clipboard
Privacy Preference center
Opt-Out Request Honored
Privacy Preference center
Your Privacy Choices
Privacy Preference Center
Your Privacy Choices
As part of your use of our website, you may have provided personal information to us in order to use our products and services. If applicable under law, you may have a right to opt-out of this information being “sold” or “shared” with third parties unrelated to the products and services and you also may have rights to delete, access, correct or manage your personal information submitted to our site using an email address or account. You may elect to exercise these rights through the form linked below.
Opt-Out Form
Privacy Preference Center
Privacy Preference Center
We use cookies and other tracking technologies to provide you with a personalized experience on our sites, such as showing you content and ads that are relevant to your interests. We may need to disclose certain information collected through those tracking technologies, like your IP address or other information that may be deemed “personal information” under certain state privacy laws, to our advertising partners or other technology providers, in order to provide such relevant content and advertising. That disclosure could be considered a “sale,” “share” or “targeted advertising” under applicable law. You can choose to opt out of having your personal information disclosed to our partners for these activities by sliding the toggle above to the left and then clicking on the “Confirm My Choices” button, or by visiting this website with an opt-out preference signal, such as Global Privacy Control.Opting out will not prevent you from seeing ads, but may result in ads or content that could be less relevant to your interests. Additionally, we may still disclose your personal information to service providers and/or processors in accordance with law and our privacy policy. Please note that in some cases supplemental terms may also apply to the data collected and shared through cookies and other tracking technologies, and these supplemental terms can be found linked in the footer of the applicable website. You can read more about our privacy practices, including managing opt-outs in your email or account settings, by visiting our privacy policy, linked in the footer.
Cookie List
Consent Leg.Interest
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
checkbox label label
Clear checkbox label label
Apply Cancel
Confirm My Choices Allow All
live chat
Get 24/7 Real-Time
Assistance.
online now
Hi, welcome to FindLaw.com!
I am a real person. I can help coordinate a consultation with an attorney. Say Hi to begin :)
Start Chat