Skip to main content
In This Section
Name Change Basics
Changing Your Name Through Marriage, Divorce, Adoption or Citizenship
Toggle submenu
More About Child Name Changes
Notice to Non-Petitioning Parent
Privacy and Name Change
Name Change Forms
Correcting a Birth Certificate
Proof of Birth
Name Change: Criminal Convictions
Sex Designation Change Basics
Quick Links
Ask a Law Librarian
DIY Forms
eFiling
Find a Lawyer
Help Centers
LawHelp
Legal Glossary
Public Access Law Libraries
The forms for changing a name or sex designation in the Supreme Court of New York City Civil Court are included in the chart below. There are different forms to request a name change or sex designation change for an adult and a child. If you want to change your name because you are getting married or divorced go to the Changing Your Name Through Marriage, Divorce, Adoption or Citizenship page.
The easiest way to change you name is to make the court papers you need using the DIY (Do-It-Yourself) Form program. This program walks you step-by-step throughout the paperwork you need and gives you helpful definitions and legal information. When you finish the program you get the court forms you need and instructions of what to do next.
If you can't use the DIY Form computer programs you can print paper forms and fill them out by hand. You should use Adobe Reader to download and view the form.
Forms for New York State Residents filing in NYS Supreme Court or County Court
These forms may be filed in NYS Supreme Court or County Court.
DIY Name/Sex Designation Change Forms
Statewide Name/Sex Designation Change Forms
Forms for New York City Residents filing in NYC Civil Court
These forms are filed in the Civil Court of the City of New York.
If you live in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens or Staten Island, the fee is $65.00.
NYC DIY Forms
NYC Name/Sex Designation Change Forms
Related Information:
Name Change Basics
More About Child Name Changes
Fee Waiver
Feedback
How would you rate your experience? Select an option from 1 to 5, with 1 being Not good at all and 5 being Very good
Not good at all Very good
Next Skip