Skip to main content
Ask us for legal help.
We speak your
language
Contact PTLA to get legal help
Contacte a PTLA para obtener ayuda legal
للحصول على المساعدة القانونية PTLA ‎الاتصال بـمكتب
Kala xiriir PTLA wixii caawimaad Sharci eed u bahantahay
Fale com a PTLA para obter assistência jurídica
Solola na PTLA mpo na kozwa lisungi ya maye matali mibéko
Contactez PTLA pour obtenir une aide juridique
Kontakte PTLA pou kapab jwenn Èd Jiridik
Donate
Legal Topics Menu
Name & Gender Marker Change
Articles
How to change your name and gender marker in Maine
Featured Content September 2025
This is a guide for adults in the state of Maine who want to change their legal name and/or gender marker. This guide is especially written for trans or gender non-conforming people - but can be used…
Form
CN-1 Petition for Change of Name (Adult)
October 2025
This is the Maine Probate Court form for an adult name change.
Articles
Minor Name Changes in Maine
October 2025
To change your name, or the name of a minor in your care, you will usually need to file a petition with the Probate Court in the county where you live. There are some special procedures for changing…
Form
Probate Jurisdictional Affidavit - AF-101
September 2025
The Maine court form for determining the jurisdiction for certain family law and name change cases
Form
NC-001 Petition for Change of Name (Child)
August 2024
The Maine Probate court form for a name change for a child. Formerly CN-2, it is now called NC-001.
Form
PB-003 Jurisdictional Affidavit for Adoption, Minor Guardianship, and Minor Name Change
August 2024
A fill-able .pdf of Maine court form PB-03, the Jurisdictional Affidavit that must be filed in District court with any adoption, minor guardianship, or minor name change case.
Guides and How-To's
Adoption, Guardianship of a Minor, Child Name Change and Maine's Home Court Act: When, where and how to file the Jurisdictional Affidavit
September 2022
What is the Maine Home Court Act?
The Home Court Act is a Maine law passed in 2016. It is meant to prevent more than one case about the same child from happening in different courts.
Showing 1 - 7 of 7