top of page
Welcome
to
Your Maine source for HIV prevention and sexual health resources
Call or Text with questions
(207) 553 - PrEP
PrEP207 is a collection of community-based organizations and service providers dedicated to helping patients get access to PrEP, PEP, and other crucial HIV services in Maine.
Contact
Connect with Us
CONTACT
US
Call or text. 207-553-PREP
prevention@peabodycenter.org
Portland, ME
​
VISIT
US
walk-in services available Wednesdays 2-5pm
30 Danforth St. Suite 309
Portland, Maine 04101
Our Team
Angelea Errington, she/her
PrEP/PEP Navigator
Angelea is the Linkage to Care Coordinator at Frannie Peabody Center , providing free HIV and Hep C testing services as well as referrals for PrEP and PEP services
Chris Donahue, he/him
Provider Training, PrEP/PEP Navigation
Chris is the Community Health Promotion Specialist at the City of Portland's Public Health Center. Chris offers trainings and information concerning PrEP to clinical practices across Maine.
Simane Ibrahim, she/her
PrEP/PEP Navigator
Simane works at Maine Access Immigrant Network , which bridges access to health and social services for immigrants and refugees in Portland Maine. MAIN also works in partnership with Frannie Peabody Center on HIV education and outreach.
Ashlee, she/her
PrEP/PEP Navigator
Ashlee is an outreach educator for the Horizon Program at MaineGeneral. She is passionate about offering HIV testing, PrEP, and PEP information to central Maine.
Elena, they/them/elle
PrEP/PEP Navigator
Elena is a PrEP Navigator working and serving the State of Maine. They are passionate about promoting health equity and improving outcomes for populations at higher risk of HIV. In addition to their professional duties, Elena is committed to advocacy and education, working to raise awareness about the benefits of PrEP and its role in comprehensive HIV prevention strategies.
Questions?
Email
Call Now
Meet the Team
Special Thanks to our community partners for their support and contributions toward these services.
Acknowledgemets
bottom of page