Skip to main content
Home > Self-Service Center > Fee Waiver and Deferral
Fee Waiver and Deferral
Paying for state filing fees and costs in a lawsuit.
If you are a party in a lawsuit and need to either file a complaint or response, serve pleadings, or issue a summons or subpoena, you will be responsible to pay for state filing fees and costs at the filing counter or online (if you are efiling), as established by Arizona statutes.
If you are unable to pay the filing fees and costs, you have options. You may apply for a fee waiver or deferral if you are eligible.
Forms
Process
Poverty Levels & Authorities
Questions
State Filing Fee Schedules
Fee Waiver
A waiver means you do not have to pay the court fees.
Example: If you receive benefits from the federal Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program, AND provide supporting documentation when you file the Application for Deferral or Waiver of Court Fees and Costs (Form No. AOCDFGF1F), the court should grant a waiver.
FEE WAIVER AND DEFERRAL FORMS
Fee Deferral
A deferral means either (1) you have a payment plan or (2) payment of fees is postponed.
Example 1: If you receive TANF or food stamp benefits or assistance from a non-profit legal aid provider, AND provide supporting documentation when you file the Application for Deferral or Waiver of Court Fees and Costs (Form No. AOCDFGF1F), the court should grant a deferral and postpone payment to a later date.
Example 2: The court may compare your income to the federal poverty levels . If your income is between 150% and 225% of the current poverty level, or you have extraordinay expenses, the court may set a payment plan.
FEE WAIVER AND DEFERRAL FORMS
Fee Waiver and Deferral Process Is a Two-Step Process
The fee waiver and deferral process is a two-step process and requires that you file a Supplemental Application (Form No. AOCDFGF9F) when there is a final order, decree, or judgment in your case. The court may waive your fees if your financial situation does not change. Check out the fee waiver and deferral process for more information.
7-STEP FEE WAIVER AND DEFERRAL PROCESS FEE WAIVER AND DEFERRAL FORMS
&copy; 2026 Arizona Supreme Court. All Rights Reserved.
Chat With Gavel