Skip to main navigation Skip to main content
Find an Office
View All Driver Topics
Need to Visit a Regional Office?
Most driver services can be completed online or by mail. If you need to visit an office, appointments are recommended, and walk-ins are welcome at all locations.
Office Hours:
Monday through Friday 8 am to 4 pm
Payment Methods:
All offices accept credit/debit, cash, personal checks, certified checks, and money orders.
Skip a Trip:
Take a short quiz to see if you qualify to renew or replace your credential online or by mail. All first-time REAL ID requests must be made in person.
How Appointments Work
Appointments can only be scheduled online and new time slots are released weekly.
After booking, you’ll receive a confirmation email and text message with your appointment date, time, location, and a link to cancel or reschedule if needed.
On the day of your appointment, you’ll receive a text message with check-in instructions. You can check in on your phone and wait in your car or inside the office until you receive a text letting you know it is your turn.
If you don’t have a mobile device, check in at a kiosk inside the office or with a staff member, then wait in the lobby until your number is called.
Schedule an appointment
Schedule a KSP Testing Appointment
Walk-Ins
Walk-in customers are served on a first-come, first-served basis at all offices. Customers can check in at a self-service kiosk to receive a place in line. Once checked in, you will receive text updates and a notification when it’s your turn.
Customers may also scan QR codes posted at each Regional office to check in from their phone.
Monthly Saturday Office Hours
All Regional Offices offer walk-in services one Saturday each month from 8:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. No appointment is required.
Note:
This does not include written or road testing services provided by the
Kentucky State Police
.
Next Saturday Event: October 10
KYTC Popup Program
Popup events bring full driver licensing services to local communities that don’t have a regional office.
Appointments are required and offered online on a first-come, first-served basis. Registration opens two weeks prior to each event, and only residents of the hosting county are eligible to participate.
Popup event hours are 9:30 AM–3:00 PM (with lunch break) and do not include written or road testing — those tests are arranged through the
Kentucky State Police
.
Schedule Popup Event Appointment
Vision Screening Requirement for License and Permit Renewals
Vision screenings can be completed at no cost at any Regional Office at the time of renewal. The screening takes less than one minute.
Drivers also have the option of completing a vision screening with their vision specialist or KYTC-credentialed osteopath, physician, or advanced practice registered nurse. Drivers who pass should request a TC 94-202 Driver Vision Testing Certification Form from their provider to bring to their renewal visit. The form is valid for 12 months from the date of screening.
The vision screening and Driver Vision Testing Form must be completed within 12 months of a driver’s renewal visit at a Regional Office.
Vision Screening Information
Quick actions
Visit Us
Click a button below to find the nearest office based on your location, or select an office from the dropdown list. Once you know your preferred location, click the 'Schedule an Appointment' button below or visit as a walk-in during business hours.
Find Nearest Office
Or Select a Regional Office
Schedule An Appointment
myDrive is Kentucky's new online driver services portal, designed to make managing your driver's license, permit, or ID card easier and more convenient.
Before visiting a Driver Licensing Regional Office, you can create a myDrive account and complete a pre-application online. This can help save time and ensure you arrive with the information needed for your visit.
Pre-Application for Office Visit
Regional Office Locations
Tap a dot to view office details.
Selected:
None
Silhouette: /Drivers/PublishingImages/KY-outline.png
Find a Driver Licensing Regional Office
Select an office to view its location and details below, or use your location to find the closest office.
📍 Find Nearest Office
Choose a Regional Office
-- Select an office --
Other Useful Information
KSP Testing Appointment
CDL Drivers
What Documents to Bring?
Out of State Transfer
Have a question?
We’re happy to help. Please contact our Central Office.
Call 502-564-1257
Schedule Appointment
Relative Content
Provide Feedback
Thank you for visiting our Regional Office and Popup Locations.
We value your opinion. Please take a minute to share your experience with us.
Share Feedback