Close
Search for:
Search
Close
Bluesky
Facebook
X
Twitter
Instagram
Reddit
Mastodon
Threads
LinkedIn
YouTube
Skip to content
News
events
donate
The exterior of Children's Hospital Colorado in Aurora, photographed on Oct. 18, 2019. (John Ingold, The Colorado Sun)
The Colorado Supreme Court ruled Monday that Children’s Hospital Colorado should resume providing gender-affirming care to transgender youth.
In a 5-2 decision, the state’s highest court concluded there is sufficient evidence that Children’s violated state antidiscrimination law when it suspended gender-affirming care earlier this year in the face of mounting federal threats.
The majority ordered the case be returned to a lower court, where it said a judge should issue an injunction requiring that Children’s resume the care, which in this instance includes prescriptions for things like puberty blockers or hormone therapy.
Writing for the majority, Justice William Hood wrote that Children’s — or CHC, as Hood shorthanded it — had continued providing puberty blockers and hormone therapy to cisgender children when medically appropriate. That made the decision to stop providing them to transgender youth discrimination.
“CHC’s decision to suspend medical gender-affirming care to youth denies petitioners the full and equal enjoyment of services based on gender identity,” he wrote.
In a dissent, Justice Brian Boatright wrote that the majority opinion too easily dismisses the context in which Children’s made its decision: threats from the federal government that could result in the entire hospital system being shut because of its provision of gender-affirming care. Justice Carlos Samour joined the dissent.
Boatright wrote that the majority’s opinion “completely minimizes the reality of the situation. Furthermore, it brushes off these drastic consequences as speculative.”
It was unclear Monday how quickly the lower court judge would take to issue an injunction or whether Children’s would resume care ahead of that order.
“Children&#8217;s Hospital Colorado is reviewing the court’s ruling and assessing our next steps,” the hospital wrote in a statement. “While we do not have updates to share at this time, we will provide guidance in the near future.”
The attorneys for the families did not immediately return a request for comment.
Tumultuous months
The decision caps a tumultuous 15 months for transgender youth who receive prescriptions for gender-affirming hormones or puberty blockers at Children’s.
In February 2025, Children’s first suspended gender-affirming care following an executive order by President Donald Trump that vowed to crack down on the practice. The hospital resumed providing care later that month after a federal judge blocked the order.
Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr., appears before the Senate Finance Committee, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Sept. 4, 2025. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein)
In July, the U.S. Department of Justice subpoenaed Children’s for sensitive patient medical information, employee personnel files, internal emails, billing records and other documents are part of an investigation into the off-label use of prescriptions for gender-affirming care, though the government acknowledged it had no evidence of wrongdoing.
Children’s is fighting in court to quash the subpoena. A magistrate judge has recommended that the subpoena be quashed, calling the DOJ’s investigation “a smokescreen for its true objective” of trying to end gender-affirming care through intimidation. A final order has not yet been issued, though.
Then in December, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. issued a declaration finding that gender-affirming care for youth is neither safe nor effective. The declaration said hospitals that provide the care could be punished, and an HHS official announced later that month that Children’s had been referred for investigation to the agency’s inspector general.
As a result of the ensuing investigation, Children’s could be kicked out of the Medicaid system, which would mean the hospital could not collect payment for care provided to any Medicaid patient for any purpose. Roughly half of the patients seen by Children’s are covered by Medicaid.
Exclusion from Medicaid, though, would also have broader implications, which is why the rarely used federal sanction is known as a death sentence for hospitals. Children’s officials have said their contracts with private insurance companies would collapse, as would their partnerships with doctors. The hospital could lose its accreditation, and state regulators may as a result pull its license.
Care suspended
Children’s announced just after the New Year that it had again suspended gender-affirming medical care for trans youth under the age of 18. While the hospital has continued to offer mental and behavioral health services, it stopped writing new prescriptions for hormones and puberty blockers to trans youth.
The hospital does not perform gender-affirming surgeries and has never done so for patients under 18.
This time, several transgender patients and their families sued Children’s, arguing that the decision violates a state antidiscrimination law. They said Children’s has continued to provide hormone therapy and puberty blockers to cisgender youth when medically appropriate, and they said the sudden halt to care for transgender youth had devastating consequences to their kids’ mental and physical health.
Several parents said their kids’ mental health worsened dramatically, and at least one child talked of suicide. Parents said they worried about what would happen if their children “de-transitioned” and went through puberty inconsistent with their gender identity.
“It’s hard as a parent to be told by the same provider that this is the care your child needs, and see firsthand the relief that this care gives your children,” one parent, known in court as Denisha Doe, said following a hearing in February . “It truly is lifesaving. And then to have that same institution turn their back on you in this way feels like, well, my child’s life is expendable.”
Children&#8217;s Hospital Colorado in Aurora. (Provided by Children&#8217;s Hospital)
A lower court judge ruled in February that the families would likely be able to succeed in proving discrimination and in proving that they’ve been harmed. But the judge ultimately sided with Children’s , denying the families’ request for an injunction that would force Children’s to resume care.
Denver District Judge Ericka F. H. Englert wrote that granting the injunction would place Children’s at risk of federal punishment and “would pose a grave danger to the public interest that is greater than the danger to plaintiffs.”
Appeal to the Supreme Court
The families appealed to the Colorado Supreme Court, where justices appeared split on the question during oral arguments in April.
One question that loomed large during the arguments was about the threat Children’s faced. If the justices were to order Children’s to resume care, how likely is it that the federal government would punish the hospital?
While the appeal was pending, a federal judge in Oregon said he would block the declaration by Kennedy that threatened punishment for gender-affirming care. Based on that, an attorney for the families said during arguments before the state Supreme Court that the risk of punishment was “completely imaginary.”
But Children’s has continued to insist it would risk federal sanction by resuming care. The hospital maintained that argument even after the Oregon judge expanded his ruling to preclude any federal effort to kick a hospital out of Medicaid because it provides gender-affirming care.
Children’s instead pointed to the Department of Justice investigation, which continues to generate legal fights over subpoenas issued to hospitals across the country.
“The Department of Justice’s latest attack reinforces the shifting and unrelenting nature of its efforts to use potential civil and criminal liabilities to attack providers of gender affirming care,” the hospital wrote in a filing to the state Supreme Court earlier this month.
But attorneys for the families suing the hospital were skeptical, saying fights over subpoenas issued to other hospitals have “no relevance” to the lawsuit.
“Petitioners respectfully request that this court follow the law of the state of Colorado and prohibit the hospital from refusing to provide gender-affirming care to children because of their gender identity,” they wrote.
Editor’s picks
Meet the Denver chef who opened 3 Michelin star restaurants in 3 years
In a fading Colorado Eastern Plains town, one man seeks to spark new economic life with an RV park and tiny homes
Camper bitten by bear in southern Colorado recalls moment it &#8220;came crashing&#8221; into tent
“An uncertain trail”
Hood opened the majority’s opinion by calling the case “unusually fraught” and writing that the decision came “with sympathy for the petitioners, respondent’s employees and representatives, and the trial court that had to blaze an uncertain trail.”
But, in analyzing the issue, Hood rejected how the lower court weighed the harm of requiring Children’s to resume care. He wrote that “strict numerical comparison” of the people who might be harmed or helped by a decision was the wrong approach when it comes to claims of discrimination.
“Were it otherwise, minority groups would always lose,” he wrote. “But that is not the law.”
The Colorado Supreme Court on Jan. 17, 2023, in Denver. (AP Photo/David Zalubowski)
Hood wrote that, if the federal government were to try to punish Children’s for providing gender-affirming care, the hospital could ask the courts to intervene. That rejected an argument by the hospital that federal administrative rules would preclude judicial review prior to the hospital being kicked out of Medicaid.
“At this point and before this court, those threats remain speculative,” Hood wrote.
Finally, the majority concluded that Children’s could not use the federal threats — and Kennedy’s declaration against gender-affirming care, specifically — as an excuse to discriminate.
“The Kennedy Declaration may have influenced CHC’s decision, but it doesn’t absolve CHC of responsibility,” Hood wrote.
In his dissent, Boatright wrote that he does not believe Children’s violated state antidiscrimination law. That’s because Children’s didn’t suspend gender-affirming care because the patients are transgender but because of severe threats from the federal government.
“It was a decision driven by the direct threat to the viability of the entire hospital,” he wrote. “Based on the record before us, I cannot fathom that CHC would have made this call if the consequences of the Kennedy Declaration were not so severe.”
He also criticized the majority’s conclusion that providing drugs used in gender-affirming care, like puberty blockers, to cisgender youth for other conditions is an indicator of discrimination.
“While treatment for gender dysphoria and hormonal conditions like precocious puberty can both consist of puberty blockers, this does not make these treatments one and the same,” he wrote.
Colorado Attorney General Phil Weiser, whose office joined the lawsuit in Oregon that led to the judge there blocking Kennedy’s declaration, praised the state Supreme Court’s decision.
“With today’s Colorado Supreme Court decision, Colorado families are finally going to get relief after months of uncertainty over whether their children would get the lifesaving care they need,” Weiser, who was not involved in the Colorado case, said in a statement.
Weiser said the decision, along with the one in Oregon, “should give Children’s Hospital Colorado the direction it needs to resume gender-affirming care and I hope the hospital will not delay another day.”
Type of Story: News
Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources.
John Ingold Health Reporter
johningold@coloradosun.com
John Ingold is a co-founder of The Colorado Sun and a reporter currently specializing in health care coverage.
Born and raised in Colorado Springs, John spent 18 years working at The Denver Post. Prior to that, he held internships at the Rocky Ford Daily Gazette, the Colorado Springs Gazette and the Rocky Mountain News, as well as National Geographic...
More by John Ingold
Link
Copy link