Skip to main content
Search_api_fulltext
Popular tags
Agendas
First group of popular tags
Second group of popular tags
Last group of popular tags
Idaho Identity Documents
This page was last updated in January 2026. Information may have changed since then. Please confirm that the law and forms are still up to date with local organizations and resources linked in the page.
Overview
Name Change (Adult): Yes. Requires publication of petition in a newspaper and a court hearing.
Name Change (Minor): Yes. A parent or guardian must file the petition. Publication and a hearing are required. Name change can still be granted over the objection of a parent.
Birth Certificate (Name): Yes. Requires a court order.
Birth Certificate (Gender Marker): No. As of January 2026 following a court ruling, it is no longer possible to correct gender markers on birth certificates. See below for more information.
Driver’s License (Name): Requires a court order.
Driver’s License (Gender Marker): Yes. Requires certification from a physician of a “gender change” or a court order. Only M or F gender markers are available.
Restrictions based on Criminal History: No bars based on criminal history.
Idaho Name Change Law & Steps (for Adults)
To obtain a legal name change in Idaho, you must submit a petition to the court. These steps will guide you through the process.
Granting the requested name change is at the discretion of the District Court. You can find your court in your county of residence here . It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Unredacted and Redacted Petition for Name Change (Adult or Emancipated Minor). Idaho Courts has provided comprehensive self-help instructions to guide you through completing the petition and the filing process.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
NCA 1-1: Unredacted Petition for Name Change
NCA 1-1: Redacted Petition for Name Change
NCA 1-2: Notice of Hearing on Petition for Name Change
General Civil Case Information Sheet
NCA 8-1: Judgement for Name Change
NCA 1-3: Name Change Letter for Publication
A valid photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county, should be cash or money order)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Motion and Affidavit for Fee Waiver and Order Re Fee Waiver . Further instructions on requesting a fee waiver are available here .
Step 3: Publication Requirement
Idaho has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted once a week for 4 weeks. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
You will need to include the name of your county newspaper in your petition. You can find a list of publications here . You will need to send the Name Change Letter for Publication and a Notice of Hearing to the publication that is associated with your county.
In return, the newspaper will send you a signed Affidavit of Publication to verify that you have met the publication requirements. You will need to file this Affidavit with the Court Clerk before your hearing.
Step 4: Attend the Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed and your publication requirement has been met, the court will schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend. You will need to bring the original Judgement for Name Change and as many copies as you wish to have signed and certified. It is recommended to make 5-7 copies of the Judgement, as you will need this document to update your identity documents.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here .
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for multiple copies of this order. A fee will apply per copy requested . Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Idaho Name Change Law & Steps (for Minors)
To obtain a legal name change as a minor (someone under the age of 18), an adult (typically a parent or guardian) must submit a petition to the court on your behalf. These steps will guide you through the process.
The petition is filed with the District Court . You can find the district court in your county of residence here. It is recommended to check with your local court for any additional requirements, as some courts have their own local forms or guidelines.
Step 1: Complete the Name Change Petition
In order to begin the name change process, you must complete the Unredacted and Redacted Petition for Name Change (Minor). Idaho Courts has provided comprehensive self-help instructions to guide you through completing the petition and the filing process.
Don’t let the unfamiliar format of a court petition scare you. Make sure to review all your completed documents for correct spelling and formatting before filing.
Step 2: Gather Documents & File at the District Court
You will need to file the required forms listed below with the district court of your county of residence. You can find your district court here .
All the required forms are available here . You will need:
NCA 1-4: Unredacted Petition for Name Change
NCA 1-4: Redacted Petition for Name Change
NCA 1-5: Notice of Hearing on Petition for Name Change
General Civil Case Information Sheet
NCA 8-2: Judgement for Name Change
NCA 1-3: Name Change Letter for Publication
A valid photo ID
Filing fee (varies depending on county, should be cash or money order)
If you are unable to afford the filing fee, you can submit a fee waiver with the Motion and Affidavit for Fee Waiver and Order Re Fee Waiver . Further instructions on requesting a fee waiver are available here .
Step 3: Obtain Parental Consent
If both parents consent to your requested name change, they are able to both be listed as petitioners on the name change petition. No additional forms are necessary and you can proceed to the next step.
If a known legal parent is not petitioning, they will need to be notified of your name change. If the non-petitioning parent consents to the name change, they will need to complete the NCM 2-1: Parental Consent to Name Change , which you should file during step 2.
If a known legal parent does not consent to the requested name change, they will still need to be notified through the serving process. If the non-consenting parent lives in Idaho, you will need to have the required documentation hand-delivered (through personal service). If the non-consenting parent lives out-of-state, you will need to send them the required documentation through certified mail. Make sure to request a return receipt as you will need to bring this to your hearing.
Once you have completed the serving process, you will need to file an Affidavit of Service on Petition for Name Change and Notice of Hearing (Minor) . Please contact your local circuit court for more information on the serving process and the proper documentation for your county.
If one parent objects to the name change, the judge can still grant the name change if the name change is found to be “right and proper” and the parent objecting does not show “good cause” why the name change should not be granted.
Step 4: Publication Requirement
Idaho has a publication requirement, which requires notice of your name change to be posted once a week for 4 weeks. This requirement is to ensure that you are not changing your name for fraudulent purposes.
You will need to include the name of your county newspaper in your petition. You can find a list of publications here . You will need to send the Name Change Letter for Publication and a Notice of Hearing to the publication that is associated with your county.
In return, the newspaper will send you a signed Affidavit of Publication to verify that you have met the publication requirements. You will need to file this Affidavit with the Court Clerk before your hearing.
Step 5: Attend the Hearing
Once the proper paperwork is filed and your publication requirement has been met, the court will schedule a hearing, which you will be required to attend. You will need to bring the original Judgement for Name Change and as many copies as you wish to have signed and certified. It is recommended to make 5-7 copies of the Judgement, as you will need this document to update your identity documents.
During the hearing, the judge may ask you further questions about your requested name change. For more information on what a hearing is and how to prepare, click here.
Judges may consider whether to grant a name change for a minor according to what is in the ‘best interests of the child’. They typically evaluate the best interest of the child by looking at a variety of factors, which may include the child’s preference (taking into consideration their age and experience), the length of time a child has used that name, the difficulties, harassment, or embarrassment a child may experience from the present or proposed name, and the motives or interests of the parent.
If the judge approves the request, you will request a certified copy of the order from your district court. It is recommended that you ask for 5-7 copies of this order, as you will need certified copies to amend your identity documents. A fee will apply per copy requested . Once you’ve received your certified copies, you may start updating documents and informing other relevant institutions. This includes important documents such as birth certificate, driver's license, social security card , and passport .
If the judge does not approve the request, you may decide to appeal against the decision or seek legal counsel.
Idaho Birth Certificate Policy & Procedures
The Idaho Division of Public Health will issue an amended birth certificate upon receipt of an application and copy of a court order legally changing the name.
It is not possible to correct the gender marker on Idaho birth certificates. Although Idaho had attempted to prevent trans people from correcting gender markers on birth certificates in 2018, a federal court issued an injunction preventing the policy from going into effect. Unfortunately, the injunction was dissolved in January 2026.
If you corrected the gender marker on your birth certificate prior to 2026, your birth certificate remains valid. Please let us know if Idaho requests to replace your birth certificate by e-mail at ncp@transequality.org.
Submitting the Required Documents & Next Steps
If you were born in Idaho, you may mail your request, required documents, and fee payment to the Idaho Vital Records Office. Make sure to review the provided checklist before submitting.
Mailing address:
Idaho Vital Records
PO Box 83720
Boise, Idaho 83720‐0036
If you are no longer an Idaho resident, but you have a birth certificate issued by the state of Idaho, you are still able to mail-in your request and amend your birth certificate as outlined above. The Idaho Vital Records Office will accept a certified copy of an order for name change signed by a court from your current state of residence.
If you were not born in Idaho, you will need to follow the amendment instructions from the state’s vital records office. For more instructions, find the state that issued your birth certificate in A4TE’s ID Doc Center and skip to the section on birth certificates.
For more information or questions regarding amending your birth certificate, contact the Vital Records.
Phone: 208-334‐5980
Email: ivr@dhw.idaho.gov
Idaho Driver's License Policy & Procedures
In order to update the name on an Idaho driver’s license or state ID, you must first change your name with the Social Security Administration. For more information on that process, visit the Social Security Record section of the ID Documents Center .
To change your name on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with your county’s DMV office.
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
A certified copy of your order of name change
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Two forms of proof of Idaho residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact your county’s sheriff's office or the Idaho DMV 208-584-4343.
When Updating your Gender Marker
To change your gender on your license or state ID, you will need to make an in-person appointment with your county DMV office. You can find a list of county sheriff offices here .
You will need to bring the following to your appointment:
Form ITD3533 - Sex (Gender) Designation on a Driver’s License or Identification Card
Proof of identity
Your current DL/ID
Two forms of proof of Idaho residency
The licensing fee (which varies depending on license type)
If you have additional questions, you may wish to contact the Idaho DMV 208-584-4343. If the form has changed or is no longer being accepted, please let us know.
Additional Resources
For additional information, please check out the A4TE Name Change Overview page as well as the additional state resources listed below. You can also reach out with questions via email at ncp@transequality.org .
Idaho Courts —has prepared comprehensive self-help resources and instructions to help guide you through the name change process.
Trans Affirm —dedicated to providing support and resources to transgender and gender diverse individuals in Idaho. You can find legal aid as well as community resources in their Resource Hub.
Email: info@transaffirm.org
Idaho Legal Aid Services— provides self-help guidelines for navigating the name change process as well as updating your identity documents. They also have a list of LGBTQ community resources across the state.
Phone: 208-746-7541
Idaho Legislature Code Citations
Change of Names— Idaho Code Ann. §§ 7-801—7-805
Procedure for Delayed Registration or Amendment of Vital Record— Idaho Code Ann. §§ 39-278
Idaho Department of Transportation Administrative Policy 5504
Stay Informed
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news and opportunities for action delivered straight to your inbox.
Subscribe