Go to Content
Our Services
We provide essential reproductive health care services to generations of Ohioans in our communities. Our caring and knowledgeable staff provide a wide range of services, including testing, treatment, counseling, and referrals.
Birth Control
People have used birth control for thousands of years. Today, we have many safe and effective birth control methods available to meet your needs.
birth control
Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) Testing and Treatment
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are caused by infections that are passed from one person to another during sexual contact.
STI Treatment
Abortion Services
If you are pregnant, you have options. Learning the facts about abortion may help you in making your decision.
abortion care
Emergency Contraception
Emergency contraception helps prevent pregnancy after unprotected intercourse or after the failure of a regular method of birth control.
emergency contraception
Gender-Affirming Care
We provide gender-affirming care, including hormone therapy, in a safe, judgment-free, and compassionate environment.
gender-affirming care
Wellness Exams
Preventative wellness exams keep you in charge of your health, and include a range of primary, reproductive, and sexual health screenings and assessments based on your age and medical history.
wellness exams
Pregnancy Testing and All-Options Counseling
You have three options to think about: parenting, adoption, and abortion. There is no right or wrong decision. As part of our commitment to your health care, Planned Parenthood offers education resources and referrals.
all-options counseling
Colposcopy
One way to find abnormal cervical cells is to have a colposcopy procedure and, sometimes, a colposcopy and biopsy together.
colposcopy
Cervical Cancer Screening
Treatments for precancerous cells are highly effective at preventing cervical cancer.
cancer screening
HIV Testing and Counseling
Up to 1 out of 6 people who have HIV don't know it. Knowing if you have HIV can be essential to your sexual health.
HIV services
Midlife Services
During perimenopause and menopause, a person may experience many hormonal changes, and may have some mild to serious menopause symptoms.
midlife services
Vaccinations
We offer vaccines for HPV, COVID-19, and influenza.
schedule vaccines
Treatment for UTIs
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection of the urinary system, including your bladder and urethra. Anyone can get a UTI, but they’re more common if you have a vulva.
UTI Care
Treatment for Vaginal Infections (non-STI related)
We offer care for Bartholin's duct cysts, Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID), bacterial vaginosis (BV), and yeast infections.
vaginal infections
Quick Care
When getting well can’t wait, we offer expedited care for several common conditions – no appointment needed.
QUICK CARE
All services are confidential regardless of age or marital status.
Our model of care involves patient-focused information and education . Patients leave our centers with the information and knowledge they need to maintain and protect their health. Planned Parenthood provides a non-judgmental and confidential rapport with patients that makes it easier to address a number of sensitive issues such as behaviors that involve risk and safer alternatives.
Ohio teenagers are not required to have parent permission to receive basic gynecological services, get birth control, obtain a pregnancy test, HIV test and/or testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections.
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all