Skip to main content
Unsupported Browser Detected
The web Browser you are currently using is unsupported, and some features of this site may not work as intended. Please update to a modern browser such as Chrome, Firefox or Edge to experience all features Michigan.gov has to offer.
Supported Browsers
Google Chrome
Safari
Microsoft Edge
Firefox
Correct/Change a Vital Record or Legal Name Change
Correct/Change a Vital Record or Legal Name Change
Note
The Michigan Department of Vital Records and Health Statistics has vital record events that occurred in the State of Michigan. If the event occurred in another state, you must contact that state’s vital records office.
How to Correct or Change a Vital Record:
Select and complete the appropriate application linked below.
Sign the application with an original signature.
Include required documents. Affidavit(s) must be notarized.
Original documents will not be returned.
Court orders must be certified by the court.
Include a copy of your identification. (For example, government issued ID, driver’s license, signed passport or visa. See below for alternative documents.)
Include required payment. A separate check or money order is required for each application submitted.
Please do not use sticky notes.
If any additional information is needed, you will be contacted by this office.
Submit completed application and documents by mail to the address listed on the application.
* Click here for Photo ID Alternative Documents.
NOTE: Documents used for alternate ID may not be used for supporting documentation.
Correct a Michigan Birth Record
Application to Correct a Michigan Birth Record .
Application to Add a Parent on a Michigan Birth Record (Not used to remove a parent).
Affidavit of Parentage (Voluntary form for unmarried parents or parents using assisted reproduction, without surrogacy, to legally acknowledge parentage).
Sex Designation Authorization - Changes Gender to Reflect Identity (Does not correct a filing error)
* Correct a Birth Record FAQs
Correct a Michigan Death Record
Application to Correct a Michigan Death Record (Used by funeral service licensee or next of kin).
Physician Application to Correct a Michigan Death Record - Death before January 1, 2004
Physician Application to Correct a Michigan Death Record - Death after January 1, 2004
* Death Changes - FAQs
Request Photocopy of a Previously Filed Application
Request Photocopy of Previously Filed Application
Legal Name Change:
A court ordered legal name change does not automatically change a birth certificate. To update the birth certificate, you must send a certified copy of court order to our office with your application.
Adult name change: If the court order tells us to create a new birth certificate that does not show the name at birth, the new birth certificate will not list the name at birth and will not include an addendum.
If the court order does not tell us to create a new birth certificate, the birth name will stay on record, and an addendum will be added to show the new name.
Michigan Law: Act 368 of 1978, MCL 333.2872.
Establish a Delayed Birth Record:
You must order your birth certificate from our office first. If we’re unable to verify an existing birth record, we will send you a form to create a delayed birth certificate.
* Establishing a Delayed Birth Record - FAQs.
Correct a Marriage or Divorce Record:
To correct a marriage or divorce record, contact the County Clerk where the license was issued or the divorce was granted. For divorce questions, you may also contact the attorney who handled the case.
Questions and Help
Customer Service
Phone: 517-335-8660 Email: MDHHS-VR-Changes@michigan.gov
Hours
Monday - Friday
The office is closed on state holidays.
Important Information
Processing times are currently 8-10 weeks (regular) & 6-8 (expedited) [not guaranteed].
Delays may happen due to reasons outside our control.
Pre-paid self-addressed envelopes are not allowed.
MCL 333.2894 Prohibited conduct. (1) A person shall not: (b) Wilfully and knowingly make a false statement in a vital record or report required to be filed under this code, or in an application for an amendment or for a certified copy of a vital record.
MCL 333.2898 Violation; penalty. A person who violates section 2894 or 2895 is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or a fine of not more than $1,000.00, or both.
Follow us