Pause Video
UNM Health
Find a Doctor
Browse Services
Find a Location
About Us
Welcome to&#160;UNM Health System
Every minute. Every day. Your health is our focus.
As New Mexico&#8217;s only Level I Trauma Center, largest teaching hospital and only academic medical center , UNM Health is committed to delivering high-quality, accessible care to communities across our state. Through exceptional patient care, education, research and service, our providers and teams bring that mission to life every day.
UNM Health is the clinical delivery arm under UNM Health Sciences .
UNM Health | maps
Click Here for Directions Plan Your Visit to the Hospital
Download the App
Google Play App Store
New Mexico's only Level 1 trauma center
1M+ Patient visits each year
Ranked High Performing Hospital for Colon Cancer Surgery and Heart Failure
What It Means to Be an Academic Medical Center
The UNM Health Sciences Center is New Mexico&#8217;s only academic medical center and home to the state&#8217;s largest teaching hospital. Academic medical centers play a vital role in advancing healthcare by providing exceptional patient care, training the next generation of health professionals, and driving research that leads to innovative treatments and cures.
World-Class Specialty Care
View All Services
Cancer
The only NCI-designated cancer center in New Mexico.
Bariatrics
Lifechanging weight loss surgery and support.
Stroke
Our Advanced Care Stroke Center.
Chronic Pain
Compassionate, effective pain management solutions.
Pediatrics
The state's only dedicated children's hospital.
Women's Health
Personal, respectful care at every stage of life.
Behavioral Health
24/7 community mental healthcare.
Orthopaedics
Total joint replacement and sports medicine expertise.
News
Well Done: How Blake’s Lotaburger Family Has Been a Part of the Lobo Cancer Challenge Since Its Inception
Mon, 21 Sep 2026 12:00:00 GMT
Blake’s Lotaburger has been a part of The University of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer Center (UNM CCC) Lobo Cancer Challenge event before the first tire rolled off the starting line 10 years ago.
But for the Rule family, who owns the iconic New...
Read More
3rd Annual Diabetes Awareness Fair Brings Resources and the Community Together
Tue, 15 Sep 2026 12:00:00 GMT
Every year, The University of New Mexico Hospital hosts the Diabetes Awareness Fair, bringing together dozens of local organizations with a shared goal of educating the public on managing and preventing diabetes—at no cost.
NEED A NUT GRAF HERE. “On...
Read More
Behind the Curtain: Inside the SRMC Operating Room
Fri, 04 Sep 2026 12:00:00 GMT
As Sandoval County continues to grow, so does the need for specialty care and advanced surgical services. The team at The University of New Mexico Sandoval Regional Medical Center-A Campus of UNM Hospital (SRMC) is making that happen for those patients,...
Read More
Deadly Mix-Up: Fentanyl Exposure and Overdose Deaths Increasing Across New Mexico
Thu, 27 Aug 2026 12:00:00 GMT
Fentanyl first emerged as a threat on the streets of New Mexico more than 10 years ago, in the form of counterfeit pills. Recently however, deaths from accidental exposure to powdered fentanyl—as outlined in a recent statewide health advisory from The...
Read More
24/7 Emergency Expertise
The UNM Health emergency team takes on the region's most complex emergency and ICU cases at New Mexico's only Level I trauma center.
Explore the ICU
How Can We Help You?
Located in the heart of the Southwest, UNM Health serves a vibrant tapestry of patients with a rich diversity of cultural and personal needs. Find the information, support and respect you deserve at UNM Health.
Patients & Visitors
Get the information you need for a smoother visit to UNM Health.
Ways to Give
Join our pledge for a healthier New Mexico. Consider a gift of funds, artwork or your precious time.
Patient & Family Advisory Committee
Join PFAC to help shape patient and family care at UNMH.
Indigenous Patients
UNM Hospital was founded in partnership with our tribal neighbors—a promise we will always honor.
LGBTQ+ Collaborative
Get the safe, compassionate health and mental healthcare you deserve at UNM Health.
Measles Information
Learn More.
Patient Voices
Improving the Patient Experience Every Day, One Patient at a Time
UNMH CCT PACU
All doctors & nurses I encountered were excellent & far exceeded my expectations & past experiences w/hospitals.
UNMH NSC Adult Neurology Clinic
Doctor was passionate towards my issues. She fully explained my condition and how to treat them. She made sure, I fully understood and comprehended all issues.
SRMC Emergency Department
The doctors expressed concern for my needs and was treated with ultimate respect and compassion.
SRMC Family Practice Clinic
My primary is exceptional in her ability to show empathy and compassion. Her interest in providing good, considerate care is awesome. She listens, works to be inclusive in decision making, and ensure that your needs and questions are being dealt with.
SRMC Center of Excellence Sports Cl
Everything about my appointment and the service given was excellent, premises clean and comfortable, all staff highly professional, considerate, respectful, skilled and compassionate.
UNMMG Center for Reproductive Health
The CRH nursing staff was truly exceptional. Both nurses who helped care for me went above and beyond to be kind, considerate, and informative. Each interaction felt genuine and warm, even as they were highly skilled and competent in their roles. I am very grateful for the care that they provided.
UNMMG Truman Clinic
The staff are literally the best healthcare professionals I've ever received care from. I am chronically ill and have seen enough to know how great your staff are. From the receptionists to the medical assistants in the lab, top tier.
UNMH 4 West
Blown away with the amazing attention to detail & positive reinforcements. 5 star rating!!! Thank you! Very blessed to receive such great treatment & care. Keep up the amazing work!&#8221;
UNMH 7 South
I could not have asked for better doctors. Very impressive & explained things to me in a way I could understand. I'm grateful for the wonderful care I received!
UHMH Dermatology Clinic
UNM is Always Above and Beyond Excellent in their Care of Us Veterans
SRMC 4-S A
All doctors were very professional, friendly and easy to communicate. I enjoyed my stay.
SRMC Center of Excellence Sports Cl
I love this hospital. All the staff were very friendly, professional and attentive. They always made me feel comfortable and well taken care of. Their humane treatment and the way they care about patients make a huge difference. Thank you very much for the excellent service.
UNMMG Truman Clinic
The entire staff at Truman Clinic is amazing. Some of the most professional and kind people one could possibly ask for.
UNMMG Center for Reproductive Health
The services provided at this clinic are so important especially in today's climate around reproductive health. Thank you for the work you are doing and the safe haven you are providing, especially to women!
UNMH Mother-Baby Unit
All of the nurses were kind and attentive.&#160; I felt cared for and they were empathetic.&#160; All of the nurses were outstanding and I'm grateful for each and every one of them!
UNMH Eubank Clinic
This is the best experience I've had with any women's health clinic, coming to UNM women's clinic was the best decision I could have made. Everything was explained, and taken seriously, and the doctor was so kind, and showed genuine empathy towards my problems.
UNMH Home Healthcare
All of the Home Healthcare employees have been, and were fantastic! They took beautiful care of my mother.
SRMC Urogynecology
Excellent service! It was a very amazing experience, all the staff enjoy their profession in this place, that's why they do it so well. All the staff were very attentive, especially the doctors, it was a pleasure to go to my appointment with them, they were very friendly and answered all my questions with great pleasure and patience. Thank you, thank you very much!!
SRMC Center of Excellence Sports Cl
I'm very happy with every phase of my care, pretreatment, treatment and recovery. I feel that everyone involved went far beyond expectations in commitment, caring and making you feel comfortable, as well as making you feel that everything is going to be okay
SRMC Cardiology
This cardiologist is outstanding! Terrific interpersonal skills and excellent ability to explain details of my problems, she is a great asset!
UNMMG Center for Reproductive Health
The staff here was excellent. Very helpful, courteous, and professional. If this was my only experience at UNMH, I wouldn't want to go anywhere else.
Show
Locations:
Hospital
Urgent Care
UNM Health Clinics
Primary Care
Find Expert Care Near You
UNM Health offers exceptional care in Albuquerque and throughout New Mexico. Find a location near you.
UNM Hospital
UNM Sandoval Regional Medical Center
UNM Children's Hospital
UNM Comprehensive Cancer Center
View All Locations
Delivering More for New Mexico
Read more about how we are Delivering More for New Mexico.