Skip to main content
After Your Name Change
Topic Menu
After a name change, other records that use your old name do not change automatically. Contact any agency or organization that normally deals with you or your child under your old names.
Organizations to Contact
Here is a list of agencies and organizations to contact after a judge issues an order approving a name change for you or your child.
Social Security Administration (SSA) (You must update the SSA before you can update a Michigan driver’s license or state ID.)
Michigan Secretary of State ( Driver's License or State ID correction and Vehicle title correction )
Passport Office
Post Office
Banks and other financial institutions
Credit Card companies (or issuers)
Doctors’ offices/ dentists’ offices
Insurance companies
The Michigan State Tax Authority
Municipal Tax Authority (if applicable)
Clubs
Memberships
Employer
Retirement plans
Schools you or your child attend
There may be other agencies and organizations not listed here that you should contact.
Updating the IRS and Voter Registration
Updating a name with the Social Security Administration (SSA) should automatically update that name with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). For more information, see the IRS page on Name Changes & Social Security Number Matching Issues .
Updating your Michigan driver’s license or state ID should update your voter registration. To check if your voter registration has updated, visit the online Michigan Voter Information Center . If your voter registration has not updated, contact your local clerk .
Updating a Birth Certificate
To change the name on your or your child’s birth certificates, you will need the following things:
an Application to Correct or Change a Michigan Birth Record
a copy of the final name change order
a check or money order with the application fee ($50 basic fee, more if you want extra copies of the certificate or rush processing), and
a copy of a photo ID (ID of the adult changing their name, or ID of the adult applying to update a child's certificate).
Send these documents to: Vital Records Changes, P.O. Box 30721, Lansing, MI 48909.
Read the information on the Application to Correct or Change a Michigan Birth Record or go to Correct a Birth Record to learn more about changing the name on a birth certificate. You can also call 517-335-8660 to speak with Vital Records Changes staff.
If you also want to change the gender marker on the birth certificate, you may be able to do so on the same application. To learn how to change the gender marker, go to I Want to Change the Gender Marker on My ID or Birth Certificate .
Share This
Share this on Twitter
Share this on Facebook
Share this on LinkedIn
Share this via email
Print this