Go to Content
Book an appointment
Expanding Access to Care in Louisiana
Planned Parenthood Great Plains has announced plans to bring telehealth and in-person services to Louisiana. Read the full announcement.
Donate
Abortion Access in Missouri
Medication abortion is now available at our Midtown Kansas City, Gladstone, Independence, and Columbia health centers.
Patients seeking abortion care can schedule an appointment online or by calling 1-800-230-PLAN .
Learn more
Connect with Us Instantly!
Have questions or need to schedule an appointment? Our chat option is here to help with booking appointments, learning about financial support options, and more! Click the pink chat button in the bottom right corner to connect with us today!
When Care Can't Wait, Financial Assistance is Available
Call us directly to schedule your appointment and learn about the financial resources available. You can also use our online appointment scheduler.
Call Now
Sign up to get updates from Planned Parenthood in Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, and Oklahoma.
Sign Up Now
Consent Forms
Find the proper consent form for a Comprehensive Health abortion appointment in Kansas. Remember that these are required consent forms.
Download Forms
Abortion Information
Find one of Comprehensive Health's locations in Kansas and Missouri that offers abortion. You can also download state-mandated consent forms and read about requirements for minors.
Abortion Services
Pay Your Bill Online
Use this portal to pay your bill online.
Pay Online
Learn
Learn more about Planned Parenthood's health services and your sexual and reproductive health.
Learn More
Get Birth Control Delivered
Request a prescription for birth control pills, the ring, or the patch for delivery straight to your door or to your nearest pharmacy.
learn more
Patient Portal
Have you already set up your PPGP MyChart account? Then log in here to securely manage your health care from anywhere.
Go To MyChart
learn more
About PPGP
Our affiliate services Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, and Oklahoma.
Who We Are
Join Our Team
Explore job openings, internships, and volunteer opportunities.
Jobs and Volunteering
Newsroom
Keep up with the latest announcements from PPGP.
Visit our newsroom
Share Your Story
Your voice can make a difference. Share your story.
Share Your Story
Learn more
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all