&emsp;&#9776;&emsp;Revisor of Missouri
Constitution
Committee
Publications
Other Links
Help / FAQ
Appendices and Tables
Words
Section
&thinsp;
&thinsp;
None
Or
And
Not
Near
&thinsp;
Do search
Help
&thinsp;
This chapter only
Title XII PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
Chapter 193
<
>
•
Effective - 28 Aug 2014, 2 histories
193.215. Amendment of certificates and reports — acknowledgment of paternity affidavit, notice to be given parents — rescission of acknowledgment, filing — paternity establishment services offered by department. — 1. A certificate or report registered pursuant to sections 193.005 to 193.325 may be amended only pursuant to the provisions of sections 193.005 to 193.325 , and regulations adopted by the department.
2. A certificate or report that is amended pursuant to this section shall be marked "Amended" except as otherwise provided in this section. The date of amendment and a summary description of the evidence submitted in support of the amendment shall be endorsed on or made part of the record.
3. Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction changing the name of a person born in this state and upon request of such person or such person's parents, guardian, or legal representative, the state registrar shall amend the certificate of birth to show the new name. The court order shall include such facts as are necessary to locate and identify the certificate of birth of the person whose name is being changed.
4. When an applicant does not submit the minimum documentation required in the regulations for amending a vital record or when the state registrar has reasonable cause to question the validity or adequacy of the applicant's sworn statements or the documentary evidence, and if the deficiencies are not corrected, the state registrar shall not amend the vital record and shall advise the applicant of the reason for this action and the applicant's right of appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction.
5. When a certificate or report is amended pursuant to this section, the state registrar shall report the amendment to any other custodians of the vital record and their record shall be amended accordingly.
6. Upon written request of both parents and receipt of a sworn acknowledgment of paternity notarized and signed by both parents of a child born out of wedlock, the state registrar shall amend the certificate of birth to show such paternity. The acknowledgment affidavit form shall be developed by the state registrar and shall include the minimum requirements prescribed by the secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 652(a)(7). The acknowledgment form shall include provisions to allow the parents to change the surname of the child and such surname shall be changed on the birth record if the parents elect to change the child's surname. The signature of the parents shall be notarized or the signature shall be witnessed by at least two disinterested adults whose signatures and addresses shall be plainly written thereon. The form shall be accompanied by oral notice, which may be provided through the use of video or audio equipment, and written notice to the mother and putative father of:
(1) The alternatives to, the legal consequences of, and the rights and responsibilities that arise from signing the acknowledgment;
(2) The benefits of having the child's paternity established; and
(3) The availability of paternity establishment and child support enforcement services. A rescission of acknowledgment form shall be filed with the bureau of vital records pursuant to section 210.823 to vacate the legal finding of paternity. The bureau shall file all rescissions and forward a copy of each to the family support division. The birth record shall only be changed pursuant to this subsection upon an order of the court or the family support division.
7. The department shall offer voluntary paternity establishment services.
8. Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction changing the name of a person born in this state and upon request of such person or such person's parents, guardian or legal representative, the state registrar shall amend the certificate of birth to show the new name.
9. Upon receipt of a certified copy of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction indicating the sex of an individual born in this state has been changed by surgical procedure and that such individual's name has been changed, the certificate of birth of such individual shall be amended.
­­--------
(L. 1984 S.B. 574, A.L. 1994 H.B. 1491 & 1134 merged with H.B. 1547 & 961 merged with S.B. 508, A.L. 1997 S.B. 361, A.L. 1998 S.B. 910, A.L. 2014 H.B. 1299 Revision)
---- end of effective 28 Aug 2014 ----
use this link to bookmark section 193.215
- All versions
Effective
End
193.215
8/28/2014
193.215
8/28/1998
8/28/2014
Click here for the Reorganization Act of 1974 - or - Concurrent Resolutions Having Force & Effect of Law
In accordance with Section 3.090 , the language of statutory sections enacted during a legislative session are updated and available on this website on the effective date of such enacted statutory section.
Other Information
&emsp;Recent Sections
Editorials
May Be Cited As
Tables & Forms
Multiple Enact
&emsp;
Repeal & Transfer
Definitions
End Report
Site changes
Pictures
Contact
Other Links
Legislative Research
Oversight
MOLIS
Library
MO WebMasters
Missouri Senate
MO.gov
Missouri House
Errors / suggestions - WebMaster@LR.mo.gov
History and Fun Facts
&copy;Missouri Legislature, all rights reserved.