Skip to main content
General Information
The Sheriff and his staff are required to follow strict federal guidelines when performing necessary procedures for fingerprinting. You are required to fill out the online application for this service.
Pricing
Fingerprinting costs $10.00
The Sheriff's Office is open from 8 am until 5 pm but will stop accepting fingerprint customers at 4:30 pm to ensure everyone can be accommodated. When arriving at the Sheriff's Office please anticipate long wait times as applicants will be helped on a first come, first serve basis.
Click the "Let's get Started" button to apply for fingerprints.
Let's Get Started
Fingerprinting Requirements: must meet ALL requirements
If you are obtaining fingerprints that require electronic submission to the SBI, please make sure you receive the Electronic Submission form from the agency requesting that you be fingerprinted. If you do not have these forms we cannot fingerprint you.
The Mecklenburg County Sheriff's Office offers this online service as a convenience to the community. In addition to the fingerprint fee of $10, the system will charge a per transaction fee for the convenience of applying and paying for your fingerprints online. The service fee is not collected by the Sheriff. This fee is paid to the company that provides this order, payment and processing system to the public. You do have the option of applying and paying via cash in person at the Sheriff's office. By doing so, you will not be charged the service fee.
Click the Let's Get Started button to begin your fingerprint application. You will be asked for information that will need to be included on the fingerprint card. The cost to get fingerprinted is $10.00 and you can pay that online as part of this process. You will also be able to choose an appointment with the Sheriff's Office for your fingerprinting session.
For More Information, Contact:
Mecklenburg County Sheriff's Office
Judge Clifton E. Johnson Building
700 E. 4th Street, Suite 120
Charlotte, NC 28202
Phone: 704-336-3665
For Technical Support, Contact:
Permitium Software
Email: help@permitium.com
Please allow 15-20 minutes to complete your Fingerprinting Appointment.
Close