Required Documents for Driver Licenses / IDs
Home
Required Documents for Driver Licenses / IDs
Time to dig through the files (piles?)
Most services require hard-copy documents for proof of identity, proof of authorized presence, and proof of Montana residency. Make sure you have the documentation you need.
NOTE: You do not need to show proof of your Social Security Number (SSN) for any transaction; however, you need to know your SSN so it can be verified at the time of your appointment.
Looking for REAL ID Documentation Requirements? Click Here.
Proof of Authorized Presence
This document verifies you are either a U.S. citizen or legally authorized to be in the U.S.
Required for:
New applicants for a Montana driver license (non-commercial or CDL) or ID card
New resident driver license transfers (non-commercial or CDL)
Temporary or permanent foreign nationals applying or renewing a credential
Applicants applying for a credential after a revocation or cancellation of a driver license (non-commercial or CDL)
Applicants whose driver license or ID card has expired and is beyond the grace period (12 months after expiration date) (non-commercial or CDL)
All CDL applicants renewing their CDL
Accepted Documents:
An original or certified birth certificate issued by a government agency (not from the hospital)
A valid, unexpired passport issued by the U.S. Department of State
A valid, unexpired passport card, issued by the U.S. Department of State
A certification from the U.S. Department of State or a U.S. embassy of the birth abroad of a U.S. citizen (Consular Report of Birth Abroad, form FS-240 or Certification of Report of Birth, form DS-1350)
A digital identification card issued to the applicant by a federally recognized Indian tribe whose reservation is located in Montana, that contains the applicant’s digitized image, date of birth and tribal enrollment number
A valid, unexpired passport issued by a jurisdiction other than the U.S. with:
an attached U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) record of arrival and departure (form I-94) (same name with an unexpired endorsement of the nonimmigrant status)
OR
an unexpired permanent resident I-551 stamp
A valid, unexpired passport issued by a jurisdiction other than the U.S. and either:
an attached U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) record of arrival and departure, form I-94 (same name with an unexpired endorsement of the nonimmigrant status) or
an unexpired resident permanent resident I-551 stamp
A valid, unexpired certificate of naturalization (form N-550, N-570 or N-57)
A valid, unexpired certificate of citizenship (form N-560, N-561 or N-645)
A valid, unexpired Northern Mariana card (form I-551) with “Northern Mariana” imprinted instead of “permanent resident
A valid, unexpired American Indian card (form I-551) with “American Indian” imprinted instead of “permanent resident
A valid, unexpired U.S. Citizen identification card (form I-179 or I-197)
A valid, unexpired permanent resident card (form I-551)
Proof of Identity
This document is used to verify your name and date of birth. To prove your full legal name and age, you must provide two documents—either two primary documents, or one primary and one secondary document.
Required for:
New applicants obtaining a Montana driver license (standard or CDL)
New resident driver license transfers (standard or CDL)
All identification card applicants
Renewing OR replacing lost, stolen, or destroyed Montana credentials (standard or CDL)
Primary Documents:
A color photo driver license or identification card, not expired for more than four years, issued by a U.S. or Canadian jurisdiction. Note: Out-of-state license transfers must have a current, valid driver license from the state they are transferring from
A certified birth certificate issued by a U.S. or Canadian jurisdiction. Note: a certified birth certificate typically has the registrar’s unique seal (e.g., raised, embossed, impressed or multicolored), the registrar’s signature and the date the certificate was filed with the registrar’s office
A valid, unexpired passport issued by the U.S. Department of State
A valid, unexpired passport card issued by the U.S. Department of State
A certification from the U.S. Department of State or a U.S. embassy of the birth abroad of a U.S. citizen (Consular Report of Birth Abroad, form FS-240 or Certification of Report of Birth, form DS-1350
A digital identification card issued to the applicant by a federally recognized Indian tribe whose reservation is located in Montana, that contains the applicant’s digitized image, date of birth and tribal enrollment number
An unexpired military identification card issued by the U.S. Department of Defense (active duty, reserve, retired personnel or dependent of active duty personnel) that contains a color photo or digitized image of the applicant and the applicant’s date of birth
A valid, unexpired passport issued by a jurisdiction other than the U.S. and either:
an attached U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) record of arrival and departure, form I-94 (same name with an unexpired endorsement of the nonimmigrant status)
or
an unexpired resident permanent resident I-551 stamp
One of the following valid, unexpired documents issued by the USCIS:
certificate of naturalization, form N-550, N-570 or N-578
certificate of citizenship, form N-560, N-561 or N-645
Northern Mariana card, form I-551 with “Northern Mariana” imprinted instead of “permanent resident”
American Indian card, form I-551 with “American Indian” imprinted instead of “permanent resident”
U.S. citizen identification card, form I-179 or I-197
permanent resident card, form I-551
temporary resident identification card, form I-688
U.S. re-entry permit, form I-327
refugee travel document, form I-571
employment authorization card, form I-688A, I-688B or I-766, or
record of arrival and departure, stamped “refugee”, form I-94 without a valid passport but stamped “refugee” with a photo affixed
A U.S. or Canadian-issued instruction, learner’s driving permit or receipt of driver license or permit, if it is current and contains the applicant’s photo and date of birt
A prison inmate identification card issued to the applicant by the Montana Department of Corrections that contains a photo or digitized image of the applicant and the applicant’s date of birth and adult offender number
An emergency identification photo issued and certified by the driver licensing authority of a U.S. or Canadian jurisdiction that includes the applicant’s name and date of birth – not acceptable for mail renewals or mail duplicates
Secondary Documents:
An original U.S. social security card or Canadian social insurance card
A certified copy of a marriage certificate or license issued by a government jurisdiction
A U.S. or Canadian driver license or identification card that has been expired for more than one year but not more than five years
A current U.S. or Canadian government jurisdiction employee photo identification card
A U.S. or Canadian driver license or identification card that is current but does not have a color photograph
A certified copy of a court order or judgment from a U.S. or Canadian court of competent jurisdiction containing the applicant’s full legal name and date of birth
Any USCIS document approved as a primary document, but that is not expired for more than one year
A certified copy of a birth certificate issued by a jurisdiction other than by a state, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a province or territory of Canada
A certification of release of discharge issued by the U.S. Department of Defense
A Medicare, Medicaid or health insurance card with the applicant’s name and individual Medicare, Medicaid or health insurance identification number
An unexpired, color photo firearm or concealed weapon permit issued by a chief of police in an organized, full-time police department or the county sheriff in a local jurisdiction within the U.S.
A current pilot’s license issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration
A certified copy of school records or a transcript issued by an elementary, secondary, or postsecondary school containing the applicant’s full name, current address, and, preferably, date of birth
A certificate of completion of a Montana department-approved traffic or driver’s education course containing the applicant’s name and date of birth
A current school photo identification card with the student’s name, current address, and student identification number
A certified copy, fax or photocopy of a certified copy of the birth certificate of the applicant’s child, if the certificate lists the applicant’s name and date of birth as parent
Proof of Montana Residence
You must provide proof of a Montana residence; if you don't receive mail at your residence, you must also provide a mailing address or PO Box.
Required for:
New applicants for a Montana driver license (non-commercial or CDL) or ID card
New resident driver license transfers (non-commercial or CDL)
Temporary or permanent foreign nationals applying or renewing a credential
Applicants applying for a credential after a revocation or cancellation of a driver license (non-commercial or CDL)
Applicants whose driver license or ID card has expired and is beyond the grace period (12 months after expiration date) (non-commercial or CDL)
All CDL applicants renewing their CDL
Accepted Documents:
A current automobile or life insurance policy or statement
The original copy of a rental agreement or rent payment receipt signed by the landlord or rental agent that includes the applicant’s name and residential address
A certified copy of school records issued by the school the applicant is attending or attended within four months of the application
Any of the following, dated or issued not more than four months prior to application:
a payroll check or payroll check stub
a bank statement
a utility bill or utility hook-up order
First-class mail with postmark
A Montana voter registration card
A receipt for personal or real property taxes paid within the last year to the state of Montana or a Montana county
A U.S. or Montana income tax return for the previous year
Home mortgage or equity loan papers showing the applicant’s name and residential address – a rural address will be accepted when there is no other physical address
Any primary or secondary document as listed in Administrative Rules of Montana 23.3.131
Note: if the applicant is homeless, a descriptive address of the location where the applicant actually resides, e.g., “under the west end of the East Street bridge.” The applicant must also provide a separate mailing address and present a written statement from a social service agency on the agency’s letterhead verifying the applicant’s homeless status and the descriptive address given by the applicant.
Name Change(s) Documentation
Required for:
Changing Name on CDL, DL, and ID card
Accepted Documents:
Applications for name change must be supported by a certified copy of one of the following documents:
a marriage certificate from the issuing government jurisdiction
a decree or judgment granting a name change from a court of competent jurisdiction
a divorce decree or dissolution of marriage specifying change of name
a U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), certificate of naturalization (form N-550, N-570) issued to the applicant
a declaration of marriage filed with the district court clerk where the declaration was made