Go to Content
Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy
Planned Parenthood offers gender-affirming hormone therapy to transgender and gender non-conforming patients. Care is available both virtually and at select health center locations. Financial assistance for hormone therapy is available for those who qualify.
Planned Parenthood also offers some gender affirming surgeries to patients in the St. Louis area and refers to other providers when needed.
Book online
Call: 314-531-7526
We offer hormone replacement therapy to patients 16 years and older. If you are 16 or 17, there are additional requirements. You will need to have a parent or guardian with you during your visit. In compliance with Missouri SB 49 , starting August 28, 2023, minors looking to start gender-affirming hormone therapy can no longer be seen in Missouri, but can make an appointment at our Fairview Heights, Illinois, health center . Patients needing support getting to their appointment in Illinois can contact our Regional Logistics Center at 618-607-5080.
You don’t need to participate in therapy or provide information from a mental health provider to receive hormone therapy. You can book an appointment by calling 314-531-7526 . At your first visit, a Planned Parenthood clinician will:
Review your medical history, including your sexual and surgical history and current health practices
Measure your weight and blood pressure
Discuss your transition goals
Draw your blood to watch for potential side effects of hormones
Explain how to take hormones and answer any questions you might have
If hormone therapy is a good fit for you, you'll receive a prescription that you can take to a pharmacy. In addition to gender affirming hormone therapy, Planned Parenthood welcomes patients of all genders and identities to access our wide range of health care services.
Location
This is a virtual visit. You will see a provider via video from your location. Book a telehealth visit online or using your MyChart app.
Important Information
We use an informed consent model to initiate gender affirming care. Although we support our patients engaging with mental health specialists as needed, we will NOT require you to produce a letter of support from that provider.
Pre-Visit Information
If you are a new patient, the Case Manager will be contacting you by phone prior to your appointment to go over important information regarding your visit, including possible insurance coverage, fees, and paperwork to fill out.
During Your Visit
The clinician will ask about your medical history and review all your medications. They will ask you to share a little about your journey with gender as well as your hopes, dreams for goals for treatment. They will discuss the risks and benefits of treatment in the context of all of those things. Together you will decide what treatment plan is right for you.
After Your Visit
If you are prescribed medication, your prescription will be sent to a pharmacy of your choosing. If your insurance does not cover your medication, pharmacy discount programs like GoodRx.com can be helpful. Please let us know if you anticipate difficulty accessing your medication.
We may recommend lab testing. This is done with a blood draw.
If you are prescribed an injectable medication, we will teach you how to do self-injection.
Payment
Not all insurance covers gender affirming care, and not all patients want to use or even have insurance. Financial assistance may be available. Payment, including co-payment will be collected by credit card or cash at the start of your visit.
Location
You will see a clinician at our health center. Please arrive 15 minutes before your scheduled appointment. We expect all of our team members will be respectful of you, but please let us if our language or behavior harms you.
Important Information
We use an informed consent model to initiate gender affirming care. Although we support our patients engaging with mental health specialists as needed, we will NOT require you to produce a letter of support from that provider.
Pre-Visit Information
If you are a new patient, the Case Manager will be contacting you by phone prior to your appointment to go over important information regarding your visit, including possible insurance coverage, fees, and paperwork to fill out.
During Your Visit
The clinician will ask about your medical history and review all your medications. They will ask you to share a little about your journey with gender as well as your hopes, dreams for goals for treatment. They will discuss the risks and benefits of treatment in the context of all of those things. Together you will decide what treatment plan is right for you.
After Your Visit
If you are prescribed medication, your prescription will be sent to a pharmacy of your choosing. If your insurance does not cover your medication, pharmacy discount programs like GoodRx.com can be helpful.
We may recommend lab testing. This is done with a blood draw.
If you are prescribed an injectable medication, we will teach you how to do self-injection.
Payment
Not all insurance covers gender affirming care, and not all patients want to use or even have insurance.
The self-pay fee for a visit will be $250 plus additional cost for labs. For a follow up visit, it will be $200 plus additional cost for labs if needed.
If you anticipate having difficulty paying for your care, please let the Case Manager know before your appointment. Financial assistance may be available.
Payment, including co-payment will be collected by credit card or cash at the start of your visit.
How to Perform a Subcutaneous (SubQ) Self Injection
SubQ Self Injections
How to Perform a Subcutaneous (SubQ) Self Injection – Spanish
SubQ Self Injections SP
How to Perform a Intramuscular (IM) Self Injection
IM Self Injections
How to Perform an Intramuscular (IM) Self Injection – Spanish
IM Self Injections — Spanish
Appointment Type
Search
Icon
Just a couple more questions.
For more accurate abortion options, please enter your age and the first day of your last period. Your information is private and anonymous.
First day of your last period
I'm not sure
Age
Find an abortion Provider
Icon
Select your appointment type
Telehealth
Video, phone, or messaging for quick
consultations, prescription refills, and follow-ups.
In-person
Full services and best for physical exams and
procedures.
All
Explore all options and discover what's
available.
Skip
Next
This website uses cookies
Planned Parenthood cares about your healthcare privacy and information preferences. We and our third-party vendors use cookies and other tools to collect, store, monitor, and analyze information about your interaction with our site, to improve performance, analyze your use of our sites and assist in our marketing efforts. We also use analytics to better understand how users book appointments. You may edit the use of these cookies and other tools at any time by visiting Cookie Settings . By clicking "Allow All Cookies" you consent to our collection and use of such data, and our Terms of Use . For more information, see our Privacy Notice .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America uses tracking technologies to improve your site experience. By using this site you agree to our general use of cookies on some of our pages. To learn more, see our Privacy Notice , Terms of Use , or by viewing your Cookie Settings .
Español
Cookie settings
Allow all
Cookie Settings
We, and our third-party partners, use cookies, pixels, and other tracking technologies to collect, store, monitor, and process certain information about you when you access and use our services, read our emails, or otherwise engage with us. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. We use that information to make the site work, analyze performance and traffic on our website, to provide a more personalized web experience, and assist in our marketing efforts. We also share information with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. You can change your default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of required cookies when utilizing our site; this includes necessary cookies that help our site to function (such as remembering your cookie preference settings). For more information, please see our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use .
Marketing
On
We use online advertising to promote our mission and help constituents find our services. Marketing pixels help us measure the success of our campaigns.
Performance
On
We use qualitative data, including session replay, to learn about your user experience and improve our products and services.
Analytics
On
We use web analytics to help us understand user engagement with our website, trends, and overall reach of our products.
Reject All
Save settings
Allow all