Haystack 26 amilia graphic-2
Youth Mental Health Support Group post-5
Civic Engagement youth group flyer-3
DnD clubs updated gif
Alumni slide
LGBTQ+ Youth Programs in Maine
Creating Welcoming Communities for Queer and Trans Youth, Kids, and Teens With All Intersectional Identities
For Youth
Learn more
For Parents
Learn more
For Educators & Other Allies
Learn more
Trainings for Professionals
Learn more
At OUT Maine, we have an ambitious goal :
to create more welcoming and affirming communities for Maine’s diverse queer kids and teens in all their intersectional identities. We do this by changing the very systems that serve them.
21.2%, or one in five
teenagers in Maine identify as as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning.
That's roughly 11,240
high school students across Maine who identify as LGBTQ+ (Maine Integrated Youth Health Survey, 2025).
Many of our LGBTQ+ youth face serious challenges. The prevention-focused resources OUT Maine provides to these kids, and for the adults and professionals who serve as their safety net, can help save lives.
By supporting LGBTQ+ youth and their families, empowering queer youth in our communities, and educating providers, OUT Maine works to lift up genderqueer, nonbinary, gay, bisexual and other kids in Maine’s isolated and under-resourced regions.
Reach out to find out more about Youth Programs, Training, and Consultations , or be part of our support network by Donating to OUT Maine .
LATEST NEWS
Rainbow Ball Weekend 2026 T-Shirt Design Contest!
by Ellie Roy | Mar 11, 2026 | General , GSTA/GSDA/CRT , Youth Programming
Calling all young artist friends! It's time again for us to look for a new shirt design for Rainbow Ball Weekend, our biggest event of the year. This is your chance to have your original artwork printed on 150+ shirts for queer and allied youth and adults across the...
How can I support my adult child who just came out as trans?
by Ellie Roy | Jan 5, 2026 | Dear Chuck , Parents
Q: My son is 23. He graduated boot camp in the CAF three years ago. He has made life in the military all about being trans. He was supposed to be a soldier. He started taking hormones two years before he told me that he wanted to transition into a girl. Dropped the...
Gender Identity vs. Biological Sex?
by Ellie Roy | Nov 26, 2025 | Dear Chuck , Education
Learning about the difference between gender identity and biological sex can be confusing at first, but it is one of the first steps to understanding a large portion of the LGBTQIA2S+ community! To make it easier, think of sex as the physical features someone is born...
UPCOMING EVENTS
Youth Advisory Board
September 28, 2026 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm Free
Fruit Loops
September 30, 2026 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm Free
School Support Circle
October 1, 2026 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm Free
THANK YOU
CREWE Trust | Jordan Wood & Jake Lipsett | Greg Mort & Family | Ron Stern & Elisse Walter
Quick Exit
Press the EXIT button at the top of every page to quickly leave our site. Or you can close your whole browser window.
X