Skip to main content
Transgender Advocacy
Advancing the civil rights and dignity of transgender Georgians.
AIDS Walk Atlanta is September 26th!
Join Our Team
Georgia Equality is dedicated to building a stronger, more visible transgender community across the state. We work to cultivate leadership and independence within the trans community while forging meaningful relationships with businesses, corporations, and legislative policymakers. Through training and education, we help develop transgender-inclusive policies, and we actively advocate for laws that protect gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation for all Georgians.
Our work extends beyond policy — we are committed to expanding transgender awareness through visibility, community organizing, and grassroots advocacy. Whether you&#8217;re looking to get involved, access resources, or add your voice to the movement, there are many ways to take action. Sign our pledge to support transgender equality and stay connected on upcoming advocacy opportunities, or explore our Transgender Voting ID Toolkit and Resources Page to learn more.
For more information contact Georgia Equality’s Gender Policy Manager, Dr. Christy Perez at Christy@georgiaequality.org .
Mapping Progress Across Georgia
For over 30 years, our organization has achieved great success for LGBTQ+ rights across the state. But the work continues. See the legislative wins, bills in progress and local campaigns that have contributed to progress across Georgia.
See Our Impact
Mission of TransAction Georgia:
To build relationships within the transgender community with focus of building leadership and independence.
To build relationships in business and corporate environments that may have little or no LGBT background and experience by providing training on transgender inclusive policies.
To build relationships with legislative policy makers. Advocating for laws and policies that include gender identity, gender expression, and sexual orientation.
Expanding Trans awareness through visibility and advocacy.
For more information contact Georgia Equality’s Gender Inclusion Organizer, Chanel Haley at chanel@georgiaequality.org or like our facebook page: facebook.com/TransActionGA
Issue Areas
Georgia Equality represents a large and diverse group of individuals across a wide array of issues. Some of the core issues that we have focused on include safe schools for LGBT students, workplace fairness and employment protections, public safety, parental and adoption rights, marriage equality, and HIV/AIDS and other health related issues.
Transgender Advocacy
Get Involved
LGBTQ Hate Crime Protections
Learn More
Learn More About LGBTQ Hate Crime Protections
HIV/AIDS Health Equity
Get Involved
Learn More About HIV/AIDS Health Equity
Non-Discrimination Protections
Get Involved
Learn More About NonDiscrimination Ordinances
LGBTQ Youth & Safe Schools
Learn More
LGBTQ Youth & Safe Schools
LGBTQ Parental Rights
Learn More
Learn More About Parental Rights
LGBTQ Housing Justice
Learn More
Learn More About LGBTQ Housing Justice
Marriage Equality & Same-Sex Relationships
Learn More
Learn More About Marriage Equality & Same-Sex Relationships
Equality in Action
Moments that define our journey toward equality in Georgia.
gaequality
Georgia&#039;s largest advocacy organization advancing fairness, safety, and opportunity for LGBTQ+ people, our allies, and all living with HIV. 🌈✨🏳️‍⚧️
We are officially just ONE MONTH out from AIDS Wal
September is quickly approaching, which means our
Looking to get more involved in the work of Georgi
NEWS: The Board of Directors of Georgia Equality i
Today, August 20, is Southern HIV/AIDS Awareness D
The election is coming quicker than you may think!
This year, we will be celebrating our big legislat
The gay agenda is alive and well, divas! #sochic #
Save the date! Georgia Equality is so excited to s
Load More
Follow on Instagram