Skip to content
Self-Represented Litigant Project
Two licensed, full-time attorneys staff the Project. The Project is designed to assist individuals with SIMPLE family law matters. Individuals with complex cases and/or high levels of conflict should retain an attorney for assistance.
There is no charge for the service. Everyone who wishes to use the Project will be asked to fill out a short demographic survey and a basic intake form.
The Project is open from 8:30 a.m. – 4:00 p.m., Monday – Friday.
Mornings – In-Person Sign-Up Only
Sign-up for the morning session begins at 8:30 a.m. in Room 108. You are urged to arrive at the courthouse at 8:30 a.m. sharp to get through security and proceed to Room 108 to sign in. Please note: the morning list often fills up very fast so if you arrive later than the suggested 8:30 a.m. time, you may find the morning list is already full and you will not be seen.
PLEASE NOTE : Parties who wish to speak to the attorneys must sign up, even to ask “simple” questions.
The attorneys do not provide help by telephone or email.
Afternoons – By Appointment Only
There are additional options for litigants who cannot arrive at the courthouse to sign in at 8:30 a.m. You may make a request in Room 108 for an afternoon appointment. The number of afternoon appointment times are very limited so the first available appointment may not be on the same day that you make a request. Please arrive at least 15 minutes before your scheduled appointment time. Advise staff in Room 108 that you are present for your appointment. Be sure to have your intake paperwork completed and ready to give to staff in Room 108. If you arrive more than 10 minutes past your scheduled appointment, you may not be able to be seen. Once you have notified staff you are present for your scheduled appointment, you may have a seat in Room 110 to wait for your name to be called.
On-line Assistance
In addition, if you are comfortable using a computer, you may go to the Harry A. Cole Court Help and Access Information Center located across the street in the Mitchell Courthouse, 100 N. Calvert Street, in Room 618 on the 6 th floor. If you choose to use the Cole Center, you may participate in an online chat with a licensed attorney who will assist you with questions regarding your case. You may also fill out online forms at the Cole Center. Once forms are completed, you may print the forms and file them at Cummings Courthouse, 111 N. Calvert Street, Family Clerk’s Office, in Room 109.
The attorneys are available to help with selecting appropriate forms, filling out forms, and limited procedural advice. PLEASE NOTE: The attorneys who staff the Self-Represented Litigant Project:
DO NOT tell parties how to conduct their cases;
DO NOT represent parties;
DO NOT file paperwork for parties;
DO NOT go to court with parties or help them with their cases;
DO NOT call, write letters, or otherwise communicate with opposing parties, attorneys, or Judges;
DO NOT help persons who already have an attorney.
Family
Judiciary Statement On Family Matters During Closure (PDF)
Message from the Judge In Charge
Administration/Judges
Anatomy of a Family Case
Chat with a Lawyer about your Family Case
Domestic Violence Assistance
Emergency Hearings
Family Division DCM PLan (PDF)
Forms
Frequently Asked Questions
Parenting Education and Mediation Services
Postponement Policy
Resources
Self-Represented Litigant Project
Juvenile
Message from the Judge In Charge
Administration/Judges
Juvenile Division DCM Plan (PDF)
Mission of the Juvenile Court
Policies and Procedures
Criminal
Message from the Judge In Charge
Judge In Charge Of Criminal/Administration
Criminal Division DCM Plan (PDF)
Division Information
Resources for Attorneys
Civil
Current Civil Division Operations
Message from the Judge In Charge
Judge In Charge Of Civil/Administration
Alternative Dispute Resolution
Asbestos Case Management
Business and Technology Case Management Program
Chat with a Lawyer about your Civil Case
Civil Division DCM Plan (PDF)
Civil Procedures
Differentiated Case Management System
Frequently Asked Questions
Scheduling Orders
Public WiFi is available in the Cummings and Mitchell Courthouses as well as areas of the Juvenile Justice Center
READ MORE (PDF)
CUMMINGS COURTHOUSE
111 N. Calvert Street Baltimore, MD 21202
Phone: (410) 396-5188
Business Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Map & Parking
MITCHELL COURTHOUSE
100 North Calvert Street Baltimore, MD 21202
Phone: (410) 396-5188
Business Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Map & Parking
JUVENILE JUSTICE CENTER
300 North Gay Street Baltimore, MD 21202
Phone: (443) 263-8706
Business Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Map & Parking
Back to top
Translate »
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings .
Accept
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Settings