Skip to content
Major upgrade to Hawaii’s driver’s license and State ID! Click here to learn more .
Driver's License
Make an appointment for all in-office visits related to driver’s licenses or state IDs online at alohaq.org .
Remember, the temporary card or document issued when obtaining or renewing a Hawaii driver’s license or state identification card IS NOT accepted for federal purposes or when traveling. Only the permanent plastic is accepted for a Real ID credential by the Transportation Safety Administration.
If you are planning to travel within six weeks of obtaining or renewing a Real ID driver’s license or state identification card, please carry additional identification such as a passport or military ID card.
I want ...
To Obtain a Learner’s (Instruction) Permit
Take the written test of driver knowledge in one of two ways: Take the written test online anytime. For more information click here . After passing the online test, schedule a follow-up AlohaQ appointment at a Driver Licensing Center (DLC) to complete the permit requirements.
Or make an AlohaQ appointment for an in-person test at a Driver Licensing Center . All requirements must be met to take the in-person written test. In-person written tests will be limited to selected days: Kapalama Driver Licensing Center on Tuesdays and Thursdays
Kapolei Driver Licensing Center on Mondays and Wednesdays
Koolau Driver Licensing Center on Wednesdays
Wahiawa Driver Licensing Center on Tuesdays
Waianae Driver Licensing Center on Tuesdays
At your appointment, an eye test, the written test and test fee of $2 (if you haven’t used the online test service), and the learner’s (instruction) permit fee of $5 will be administered and collected at the time of processing.
Complete the Driver’s License Application Form .
Present your certified birth certificate issued by a state or local government (i.e. Department of Health), social security number and two proof of Hawaii address documents at your appointment. For assistance with identifying acceptable supporting documents required to obtain an instruction permit, please consult our interactive Documents Guide or download this document . Applicants under 18 who do not have two proof of address documents may use documents presented by their parents.
Make an appointment for a Road Test.
For prospective drivers under age 18, review the Graduated Driver Licensing Program (GDL) .
For applicants under 18 years of age:
Submit the Parental Consent Form (CS-L (DL) 239) . Both parents named on the birth certificate must be present to submit and sign the form to fulfill the parental consent requirement.
If one or both parents are not able to accompany you to your appointment, the parental consent form of the absent parent(s) must be notarized by a notary public and brought with you to your appointment. Faxed, photocopied or emailed parental consent forms are not acceptable.
To get a New License – Applicants with valid U.S. License (Out of State Transfer)
Make an AlohaQ Appointment at a Driver Licensing Center .
Complete the Driver’s License Application Form .
Submit documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, legal presence, social security number and two forms of proof of principal residence in Hawaiʻi. For assistance with identifying acceptable supporting documents required to obtain a driver’s license, please consult our interactive Documents Guide or download this document .
Submit to Eye Test and Fingerprinting.
Payment of Fees and Photographing.
Road Test (may be waived).
Must be 18 years of age or older.
To Obtain the Newly Redesigned Driver’s License
Honolulu residents can order a duplicate of the newly redesigned driver’s license card through an online portal at https://mydmv.hnl.info/hnldl/duplicates . The new card will be printed with the exact same name, address, and photo as it appears on your current card. The fee for an online duplicate is $7. The new card will be mailed to the address on file within 5 weeks. Click here to learn more about the newly redesigned credential.
To Renew a valid Hawaii Driver’s License
Make an AlohaQ Appointment to renew your driver’s license.
Complete the Driver’s License Application Form .
Present original or certified copies of the following documents: One (1) proof of legal presence, legal name, and date of birth.
Two (2) proofs of Hawaii principal residence address.
Attention current Real ID holders : While documentation is usually only required for name changes, address updates, or missing documentation, we highly encourage bringing all required Real ID documents to your appointment to ensure timely processing and avoid potential delays.
Use our interactive Documents Guide to help verify acceptable documents or click here to download the Guide.
Pass an eye screening test.
Fingerprinting.
Payment of Fees and Photographing.
To Convert a Provisional License to a Full License
You must be at least 17 years old and have held the provisional license for six months.
Make an AlohaQ Appointment at a Driver Licensing Center .
Complete the Driver’s License Application Form checking the “Renewal” box.
Submit your provisional license and if not previously submitted, present documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, legal presence, social security number and two forms of proof of principal residence in Hawaii. For assistance with identifying acceptable supporting documents, please consult our interactive Documents Guide or download this document .
Eye Test and Fingerprinting.
Payment of Fees and Photographing.
To Obtain a "Kupuna" Driver's License
Residents 72-79 without conditions that could impair their driving ability may renew their driver’s license for four years. Residents 80 and older may renew for two years.
Drivers 72 and older with conditions that could impair their driving ability may be asked by a driver’s license representative to submit DOT-H2058 Medical Report .
Make an AlohaQ Appointment at a Driver Licensing Center .
Complete the Driver’s License Application Form .
If not previously submitted on or after May 1, 2014, present documentary proof of legal name, date of birth, legal presence, social security number and two forms of proof of principal residence in Hawaii. For assistance with identifying acceptable supporting documents, please consult our interactive Documents Guide or download this document .
Eye Test and Fingerprinting.
Payment of Fees and Photographing.
To Change My Address
File Notice of Change of Address [ form CS-L(DL)89 ] within 30 days of change.
Must include two forms of proof of principal residence in Hawaii.
Upon receipt of your notification, only your driving records will be updated.
Send your notification with your signature to: By Email: dl@honolulu.gov
By Fax: 808-768-9096
By Mail: Driver’s License Section, P.O. Box 30340, Honolulu, HI 96820-0340
To Change My Name
Make an AlohaQ Appointment at a Driver Licensing Center .
Complete the Driver’s License Application Form .
Submit proof of name change. For assistance with identifying acceptable supporting documents download this document .
Eye Test and Fingerprinting.
Payment of Fees and Photographing.
To Request a Replacement or Duplicate Driver's License
Online
For an exact replacement of a driver’s license or learner’s (instruction) permit, visit our online duplicate order website .
By Mail
Send Letter Requesting for a Duplicate of your Hawaii Driver’s License.
Include Your Name, Social Security Number (last 4 digits) or Hawaii Driver’s License Number, Date of Birth, Email address, reason for the request, Signature and the fee of $6.00 (certified check or money order payable to City & County of Honolulu).
Mail Request to: Driver’s License Section, P.O. Box 30340, Honolulu, HI 96820-0340, or fax to 808-768-9096.
If your image is found in our driver database, both the photo and the signature will be utilized. Hardcopy will be mailed to Hawaii address only.
In Person
Report to a Driver Licensing Center for Application.
Eye Test and Fingerprinting.
Payment of Fees and Photographing.
A Limited Purpose Driver's License
Since January 2016, the state of Hawaii has allowed its counties to issue a Limited Purpose Driver License . A Limited Purpose Driver License does not require documents to prove legal presence (which is defined as a person who is either a U.S. citizen or legally authorized to be in the U.S.) and/or proof of Social Security number. The applicant still must provide documentary proof of legal name, date of birth and Hawaii residence.
A Limited Purpose Driver License allows a person to operate a motor vehicle on public highways. It is not REAL ID compliant , meaning it is not accepted by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to board a commercial aircraft or enter federal facilities. They are not accepted for official federal purposes.
Limited Purpose Driver’s License Brochure from HIDOT .
To get a New License - Applicants from Japan, Korea and Taiwan
Visit the Foreign Driver’s License page for more information.
To know what information is on the back of the Hawaii Driver's License
The information contained on top is the PDF417 barcode with the applicant data from the front of the card. The side barcode is the sequential serial number of the license card. The back also contains the restrictions, endorsements and class of the driver’s license, as well as the applicant’s date of birth.
Other useful information
Frequently Asked Questions
Please visit the Driver’s License Frequently Asked Questions page.
Kupuna Driver’s License
Please visit the Kupuna Driver’s License page.
Driver’s License Requirements
Please visit the Driver’s License Requirements page .
Traffic Violations Bureau Clearance/Record
Please contact the Traffic Violations Bureau at 808-538-5500 for driving record or clearance.
Verification Letter
Send letter requesting verification of your Hawaii Driver’s License with Your Name, Address, Social Security Number, Date of Birth, and Signature.
Mail Request to: Driver’s License Section, P.O. Box 30340 Honolulu, Hawaii 96820-0340 or fax to 808-768-9096
Military Extension
If deployed outside of the United States, an expired Hawaii driver license is extended (valid) when accompanied with a valid U.S. military ID.
Upon the return to the U.S., the license (with accompanying military ID) is valid for 90 days. You must submit original or certified copies of your deployment papers to show the date of return, duration and place of deployment to renew the license.
Language Assistance
If you are unable to read and/or write and understand the English language, provisions can be made for an oral examination (restrictions may apply). Call (808) 768-9100 or email dl@honolulu.gov for information.