Maine Center for Disease Control & Prevention
Request Documents
The Data, Research and Vital Statistics (DRVS) office provides same day walk-in customer service for applicants looking to obtain a certified copy of a vital record. On occasion, there may be up to a 24-hour turn-around period. Applicants may also apply for a certified copy of a vital record by mail or online. Please utilize the quick links below to help determine what method works best for you.
Please note, the following specialty services are by appointment only.
Delayed birth registration
Foreign born registration
Adoptions
Adding or removing a parent on a birth record
Legal name changes
Single/Martial status letter
Corrections or amendments of any vital record
Apply in Person Data, Research, and Vital Statistics (DRVS) is located at 220 Capitol Street in Augusta, Maine. Walk-ins are welcome between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Upon arrival, applicants will be required to complete an application, provide identification, and pay the required fee. There may be a 24-hour-turn around. Acceptable payment methods are cashier’s checks, money orders, Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and Discover. Note: applicants who are not the registrant or the parent named on the certificate, must also submit proof of eligibility: Eligibility Requirements (PDF)
Apply by Mail To apply by mail, applicants must submit the following:
A completed application for a vital record: Application for a Vital Record (PDF) . Note: An incomplete application will delay the processing of your request.
A copy of the applicant’s valid government-issued picture identification which bears the applicant’s signature. Note: applicants who are not the registrant or the parent named on the certificate, you must also submit proof of eligibility
A self-addressed stamped envelope.
The required fee, according the fee schedule below.
Please Do Not Send Cash . Checks and money orders must be for the exact amount and made payable to the “Treasurer, State of Maine”. Applications received without identification and payment will not be processed and will be returned to the applicant.
Please include a phone number or an e-mail address in case more information is needed.
Note: The average processing time for applications submitted through the mail is 5-7 business days from the date the application is received by Vital Records. Please do not call Vital Records to check the status of your order until your check has been cashed.
Order Online At this time, VitalChek is only able to process requests for grandparents and prior generations by phone.
Applicants may submit an online request through an independent company that DRVS has partnered with to provide an online service; VitalChek Network, Inc . Please visit VitalChek online at www.vitalchek.com or by phone at 1-877-523-2659.
Data, Research, and Vital Statistics (DRVS) does not endorse any other internet ordering service. An additional fee is charged by VitalChek for using this service. All major credit cards are accepted, including American Express®, Discover®, MasterCard®, or Visa®.
If you are experiencing issues with an order already placed with VitalChek, please call 1-866-203-2777 or 1-866-628-9244, (option 1). Applicants may also e-mail VitalChek at vcn_helpdesk-mailbox@vitalchek.com .
Service Fee
Certificate Fee $15.00 per certificate, $6.00 for each additional copy ordered at the same time.
Vital Chek Processing Charge Per Order $15.50
*Note: Additional fees may apply for any applicable correction or amendment fees previously not collected. Please see the fee schedule below for correction and amendment fees.
Add Shipping Selection Service Fee
Standard shipping via USPS $0.00
Express Courier 2-3 Day Delivery $17.50
Express Courier Standard Overnight (by 4 p.m.) $18.50
Express Courier Priority Overnight (by 10:30 a.m.) $19.50
Optional UPS Alternate Delivery Location (added to above express rates if chosen by consumer) $5.00
Acceptable Identification Identification Requirement . Applicants applying for a certified copy of a vital record must complete a vital records application which must declare their name and their connection with the person who is listed on the record. Applicants must also show proof of identification:
driver’s license
passport
other government issued picture identification card
If these are not available, then the applicant must provide photocopies of two items from the following list:
utility bill
bank statement
car registration
copy of income tax return
personal check with address
previously issued vital record/marriage license
letter from gov’t agency requesting vital record (e.g. DHHS, WIC)
Dept. of Corrections ID card
Social Security card
DD214 form
hospital birth worksheet
license/rental agreement
pay stub or W-2
voter registration card
Medicare/Mainecare insurance card
private or public school photo ID
college photo ID
employee photo ID
disability award from SSA
These identification requirements apply to both certified and non-certified copies of vital records.
Proof of Eligibility Maine is a closed record State. This means that vital records are not public records. Maine law restricts the public's access to vital records to protect the confidentiality rights of our citizens. An eligibility matrix has been developed to assist in determining eligibility: Eligibility Requirements (PDF)
Applicants requesting a certified copy of a vital record must complete a written request or application, provide acceptable identification and, depending on the record requested, may have to demonstrate their direct and legitimate interest and/or lineage.
Applicants who are listed on a vital record may obtain a certified copy of the record upon application, identification, and the required fee.
Applicants who are not listed on a vital record may obtain a certified copy of the record upon application, identification, the required fee, as well as demonstrate their direct and legitimate interest in the record by providing documentation.
Direct and legitimate interest refers to applicants who under daily circumstances are NOT authorized access to a copy of a record although may become eligible due to events or circumstances that now require a copy of a record to protect a personal or property right. Such documentation must be an original document or a copy of the document that has been notarized. Please see the examples provided below.
Spouse, (must show marriage certificate)
Registered Domestic Partner, (must show domestic partner certificate)
Guardian, (must show court-issued guardianship papers)
Family, (not on the record), grandparents, siblings, stepparent, stepchild, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law. (must show proof of lineage )
Attorney or agent for the person who is the subject of the record. (must show a Vital Records Release Form (PDF) ) from the person the attorney or agent is representing or proof of contract that names the attorney or agent and the person they are representing.
A minor’s living/surviving parent is entitled to obtain a death certificate. (must show the minor’s birth certificate or court ordered parental rights and responsibilities)
An individual who needs a copy of a vital record for a lawsuit for protection of personal property rights (must show will or court ordered guardianship papers)
An individual who needs a copy of a vital record for a creditor, mortgage lender, creditor holding a note, Social Security, or insurance purposes. (must show a letter from the agency or company on their letterhead stating why the vital record is needed)
An individual who needs a copy of a vital record to clear a motor vehicle title, or to determine the personal property rights of the vehicle. (must show vehicle registration with both names)
Federal or State agencies, Maine local government or Tribal agencies, Maine municipal governments and Maine public school districts, any of which may require such vital statistical data for statistical or administrative purposes in the conduct of their official duties. (must complete a verification form).
Genealogists, (must show identification and a valid genealogical researcher identification card).
Others may be approved by the Department by providing supporting documents of eligibility to determine they are qualified to receive such data or records.
Media representatives or commercial firms other than those conducting health, medical or social research shall not be considered to have a direct and legitimate interest.
For more information, please see our Direct and Legitimate Interest Brochure (PDF) .
Documents to Demonstrate Lineage To protect the integrity of vital records, a municipal clerk or the Department must not permit inspection or disclosure of information contained in vital records or issue a copy of all or part of any such record, unless the applicant has a direct and legitimate interest in the record.
Primary documents demonstrating lineage. Certified copies of vital records presented to demonstrate lineage or relationship are considered the primary documents. Registrants who are 18 years of age or older may present a notarized report of DNA testing results as an acceptable primary document to obtain a vital record of a parent who is not named on the registrant’s birth certificate.
Secondary documents demonstrating lineage. In the event the primary documents to demonstrate lineage or relationship to the registrant specified above are not available, then two documents as specified below shall be presented:
A hospital or physician’s record of birth or death,
A baptismal record,
School enrollment records,
Military records,
Court records,
A U.S. Census enumeration record; or
Other supporting documents approved by the State Registrar.
A municipal clerk or the Department may verify the authenticity of the documents presented in the event they have reasonable cause to question the validity or accuracy of the document.
Fee Schedule Chapter 7 of 10-146 Department rules regulate vital record fees. Data, Research, and Vital Statistics (DRVS) does not have the authority to waive fees.
$15.00 - Fee for record search of files for a time period of 1 year before and 1 year after the stated date of the event and one certified copy of the record if located. This fee is for each search conducted regardless of whether or not the record is located.
$6.00 - Fee for each additional certified copy of the same record requested at the time a search is made.
$25.00 - Fee for verification of facts pertaining to a vital record, payment must accompany the request for verification.
Free - One certified copy of any vital record for use in determining eligibility for Veterans Administration benefits.
$60.00 - Fee for preparation and one certified copy of a: Delayed birth certificate; or a
Legitimation – includes attested copy of Legitimation application at the time of legitimation of the registrant; or a
Court-ordered legal name change; or an
Amendment/correction or completion of a vital record; or
Adding a parent’s name to a birth certificate upon receipt of a court-ordered judgment of parentage; certified divorce decree or child protective order.
$60.00 - Fee for preparation and one certified copy of a new birth certificate as a result of an adoption of a registrant born in the State of Maine or a foreign country, or the recognition of a foreign adoption.
$60.00 - Fee for processing adoption finalized in Maine for registrant born in another state.
$25.00 - Fee for a court-ordered opening of a sealed adoption record and a non-certified copy of the legal portion of the original birth record as well as a copy of the certificate of adoption in the file.
Adult Adoptee Access to sealed file information:
$10.00 - Fee for issuing a non-certified copy of the legal portion of the original birth record in the file upon receipt of application request from an adult adoptee as specified in Title 22 MRSA §2768; and a
$10.00 – Fee for issuing a non-certified copy of Medical History form upon receipt of application request from an adult adoptee (if available) as specified in Title 22 MRSA §2769; and a
$10.00 – Fee for issuing contact preference information upon receipt of application request from an adult adoptee (if available) as specified in Title 22 §2769. $50.00 – Fee for attestation of legitimation application.
$55.00 - Fee for preparation of delayed disposition of human remains permit, of which $5.00 must be deposited, on a quarterly basis, into the Cemetery Preservation Commission Fund to support the duties of the Maine State Cemetery Preservation Commission, as specified in 13 MRS §1374.
$50.00 - Fee for registration with the Adoption Reunion Registry.
$50.00 – Fee for registration of:
Domestic Partnership, and two certified copies of filed registration; or a Termination of Domestic Partnership, and two certified copies of the filed termination.
$50.00 – Fee for research and issuance of certified marital status letter.
$10.00 - Fee for record search of files for a time period of 1 year before and 1 year after the stated date of event and one noncertified copy of the record if located. The fee is for each search conducted whether or not the record is located. The fee is for each search and copy whether or not the certificate number is provided. (Not a legal document.)
$50.00 – Fee for registration of researcher identification card. Approved card is valid for one year from date of issue.
$25.00 - Fee for one noncertified copy of a record occurring between 1892 and 1955, for which the copy is available on microfilm at the Maine State Archives Research Room but is found to be illegible. (Not a legal document.)
$10.00 - Fee charged to researchers for each additional copy of a record requested after first 3 records (provided at no cost) request (limit one request of 3 records per week).
$30.00 - Fee for processing checks returned for insufficient funds.
$30.00 – Fee for issuing a Disposition Permit for transportation and disposition of human remains, of which $5.00 must be deposited, on a quarterly basis, into the Cemetery Preservation Commission Fund to support the duties of the Maine State Cemetery Preservation Commission, as specified in 13 MRS §1374.
$10.00 – Fee for issuance of attested record of stillbirth.
$100.00 – Fee for annual appointment of sub-registrar.
Resources Direct and Legitimate Interest Brochure (PDF)
Eligibility Requirements (PDF)
Verification Form for Municipal Clerks (PDF)
Verification Form for Maine State Agencies (PDF)
Application for a Vital Record (PDF)
Vital Records Release Form (PDF)