An official website of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Here's how you know
Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government
organization in Massachusetts.
Secure websites use HTTPS
A lock icon or https:// means you've safely connected
to the official website. Share sensitive information
only on official, secure websites.
This page, Uniform Probate and Family Court Practice XXXV: Change of name actions, is
offered by
Trial Court Law Libraries
Probate and Family Court
Massachusetts Court System
Show more
This is a part of
the
law library
:
Massachusetts Uniform Probate and Family Court Practices
+
This is a part of
the
law library
:
Massachusetts Uniform Probate and Family Court Practices
×
Table of Contents
Practice I: Certification of securities held by corporate fiduciary, custodian or agent
Practice II: Necessity of corroborating witness(es) in uncontested divorce and annulment matters
Practice III: Petitions for temporary guardianship and conservatorship [Superseded]
Practice IV: Petitions for contempt
Practice V: Temporary restraining orders in equity cases
Practice VI: Temporary restraining orders in Probate divorce and separate support matters [Superseded]
Practice VII: Support orders against non-residents [Repealed]
Practice VIII: Uniform fees
Practice IX: Stenographers
Practice X: Plan of adoption required in petitions to establish consent
Practice XA: Tracking system and procedures for termination petitions filed pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 210, Sec. 3 [Repealed]
Practice XB: Tracking system and procedures for petitions filed pursuant to M.G.L. Ch. 119 Sec. 23C and Ch. 201 Sec. 5 by the Department of Social Services or other child welfare agency [Repealed]
Practice XI: Trial assignments [Repealed]
Practice XII: Notices of divorce decrees
Practice XIII: Domestic relations - Acceptance of service - Summons form
Practice XIV: Conveyance of real estate
Practice XV: Probate accounts [Repealed]
Practice XVI: Allowance of Probate accounts pursuant to Rule 72 of the Massachusetts Rules of Civil Procedure [Repealed]
Practice XVIa: Co-fiduciary accounts - Appointment of G.A.L.
Practice XVIB: Power of appointment - waiver of guardian ad litem [Repealed]
Practice XVII: Accounts - Time for allowance
Practice XVIII: Annulment
Practice XIX: Dismissal of appeals
Practice XX: Assents
Practice XXI: Marking ex parte lists
Practice XXII: Medical certificate
Practice XXII(A): Clinical team report (guardian-conservator of mentally retarded) [Deleted]
Practice XXIII: Modification of temporary orders [Repealed]
Practice XXIV: Order to vacate [Deleted]
Practice XXV: Military affidavits
Practice XXVI: Probate of will - incompetent heir [Repealed]
Practice XXVII: Contempt summons
Practice XXVIII: Masters - Periodic reports
Practice XXIX: Special administrators - limitation on appointments [Repealed]
Practice XXX: Filing of financial statements
Practice XXXI: Income assignments in uncontested matters
Practice XXXII: Compensation of guardians ad litem: Limitation on hours
Practice XXXIII: Standards for computer generated forms
Practice XXXIV: Charitable interests
Practice XXXV: Change of name actions
Probate and Family Court Uniform Practices
Probate and Family Court Uniform Practices
Uniform Probate and Family Court Practice XXXV: Change of name actions
Adopted Date:
06/05/2018
Effective Date:
01/06/2026
Updates:
Adopted June 5, 2018, effective August 1, 2018
Amended effective January 6, 2026
Contact
Trial Court Law Libraries
Online
Library locations and phone numbers
Chat with a law librarian online
Email a reference librarian:
Email Trial Court Law Libraries at lawlibraries@jud.state.ma.us
Skip table of contents
Table of Contents
Show More Table of contents
top
Table of Contents
You skipped the table of contents section.
(a) Scope
Pursuant to G. L. c. 210, § 12 , a petition for the change of name of a resident of Massachusetts may be heard by the division of the Probate and Family Court (hereinafter “the Court”) in the county where the petitioner resides.
(b) Separate petition required
To seek a name change, a petition for a change of name must be filed unless:
(1) A party in a divorce case seeks to resume that party’s birth surname or that of a former spouse prior to the issuance of the judgment of divorce ( G. L. c. 208, § 23 );
(2) An individual seeks to change the name of the person to be adopted as part of an adoption proceeding ( G. L. c. 210, § 6 ); or
(3) A parentage judgment includes an order to amend the name of the child in an Order to Amend Birth Certificate ( G. L. c. 209C, § 8 ; see also G. L. c. 46, § 13(d)(4) ).
(c) Proper filing--adult
A properly filed name change request for an adult includes:
(1) A Petition to Change Name of Adult (CJP 27) ;
(2) A certified copy of the petitioner’s birth certificate. Any birth certificate containing foreign language must be accompanied by a professional English language translation. The translator must provide a notarized statement of the accuracy of the translation and self-certification of their ability to translate;
(3) A Court Activity Record Information (CARI) and Warrant Management System (WMS) Release Request form (CJP 34) ;
(4) A certified copy of any prior name change (i.e., marriage certificate, divorce decree, or court order changing name); and
(5) The filing fee, unless waived by the Court pursuant to G. L. c. 261 .
(d) Proper filing--minor
A properly filed name change request for a minor includes:
(1) A Petition to Change Name of Minor (CJP 25) . The minor child shall be listed as the petitioner. The minor child’s legal parent(s) or any court-appointed guardian(s) shall present the petition to the Court as the minor’s next friend;
(2) A certified copy of the petitioner’s birth certificate. Any birth certificate containing foreign language must be accompanied by a professional English language translation. The translator must provide a notarized statement of the accuracy of the translation and self-certification of their ability to translate;
(3) A certified copy of any prior name change (i.e., adoption decree or court order changing name);
(4) A Child Care or Custody Disclosure Affidavit (TC0050) ;
(5) Any Assent to Petition to Change Name of Minor (CJP 30) ;
(6) The filing fee, unless waived by the Court pursuant to G. L. c. 261 . If an entire family seeks a name change or two or more children who have the same legal parents seek a name change, a separate petition must be filed for each person whose name is seeking to be changed, but the filing fee shall be assessed on one petition only, unless the filing fee is otherwise waived by the Court pursuant to G. L. c. 261;
(7) Where applicable: (A) The death certificate of any deceased legal parent;
(B) Any certified decree terminating parental rights of any legal parent;
(C) Any adoption surrender signed by a legal parent; and
(D) Any certified decree of guardianship; and
(8) If the petition seeks to change the name of a minor 12 years of age or older, the following additional requirements: (A) The notarized assent of the petitioner/minor; and
(B) A Court Activity Record Information (CARI) and Warrant Management System (WMS) Release Request form (CJP 34) for the petitioner/minor.
(e) Impoundment
The petition, and all documents filed in connection therewith, shall be segregated and not available for inspection pursuant to G. L. c. 210, § 13(b) and the Uniform Rules on Impoundment Procedure . The case caption and docket number are not impounded.
(f) CARI and WMS Check
The Probation Department shall conduct a Court Activity Record Information (CARI) and Warrant Management System (WMS) check for any person 12 years of age or older who is the subject of a petition for a change of name.
(g) Review
(1)
After the filing of the petition and payment or waiver of the filing fee, the Court shall review the petition and all related documents, including any CARI/WMS Report.
(2)
After review, the Court may:
(A) Determine that no citation is needed and issue a decree on the petition without a hearing; or
(B) For good cause shown, issue an Order of Notice on Petition to Change Name (CJP 130) . A citation shall issue consistent with that order.
(h) Notice requirements
Rule 6 of the Supplemental Rules of the Probate and Family Court applies to all citations, unless otherwise provided below.
(1)
Examples of good cause shown may include: the petitioner is incarcerated, on probation, on parole, committed to the Massachusetts Treatment Center as a sexually dangerous person, and/or in the custody of the Massachusetts Department of Youth Services.
(2)
The following shall be deemed good cause shown for a minor petitioner: the petitioner has at least one legal parent or court-appointed guardian who has not filed a written assent to the petition.
(3)
If it appears from the petition that the address or whereabouts of a legal parent or court-appointed guardian is unknown or certified mail cannot be accomplished despite diligent efforts, the petitioner may file a Motion for Alternate Service and Affidavit of Diligent Search (CJP 31) . Whenever the Court orders alternate service under this subsection, the Court shall also require that a Military Affidavit (TC0002) be filed as to the person to be served.
(4)
Authorities upon whom the Court may order notice by certified mail include, but are not limited to: the Massachusetts Department of Correction, the Massachusetts Parole Board, the Massachusetts Department of Youth Services, and the Massachusetts Sex Offender Registry Board. The Court may also order that notice also be given to the prosecuting official and Sheriff’s Office(s) in the jurisdiction where the petitioner’s conviction(s) or delinquency adjudication(s) occurred. Prosecuting officials may include the District Attorney, Attorney General, or United States Attorney.
(5)
If the Court issues an Order of Notice on Petition to Change Name (CJP 130) when an entire family seeks a name change or two or more children who have the same legal parents seek a name change, a single citation is sufficient unless otherwise ordered by the Court.
(i) Proof of notice
If notice is ordered by the Court, proof of notice in the form ordered shall be filed with the Court prior to allowance of the petition. If service is made by mail, proof of notice shall include a receipt signed by the addressee or other evidence of personal delivery to the addressee satisfactory to the Court.
(j) Court action on petition after notice
(1)
Any person may appear for purposes of objecting to the petition by filing an appearance prior to the return date listed on the citation.
(2)
If no objections to the petition are filed, and proof of notice has been properly filed, the Court may act upon the petition without a hearing.
(k) Proof of change of name
If the Court grants the petition for the change of name, a certified copy of the decree shall issue. If requested, a Certificate of Name Change, under seal of the Court, may be issued by the registry upon payment of the proper fee, unless fees have been waived by the Court pursuant to G. L. c. 261 .
(l) Statutory notification requirement
Each register of probate shall, at a minimum, make an annual return in December of each year, or as otherwise may be required by G. L. c. 210, § 14 , to the Commonwealth's Registry of Vital Records and Statistics under the supervision of the Commissioner of Public Health, and to the Commissioner of Probation of all changes of name which have been granted during that year in the division.
Reporter's notes
2025
The Practice was changed in 2025 to reflect amendments to G. L. c. 210, § 13 which went into effect on November 25, 2025. The amendments, inter alia , eliminated the default requirement for notice by publication and required that all petitions filed on or after November 25, 2025 be impounded.
2018
Practice XXXV governs change of name actions filed in the Probate and Family Court for which a separate petition is required. The Practice is adopted to clarify procedural omissions in the controlling statute, G. L. c. 210, § 12 et seq. The Practice, inter alia , makes clear the notice requirements in change of name actions for both adults and minors, including the statutory requirement to provide notice to the public by publication in all cases.
Contact
Trial Court Law Libraries
+
Online
Library locations and phone numbers
Chat with a law librarian online
Email a reference librarian:
Email Trial Court Law Libraries at lawlibraries@jud.state.ma.us
Updates:
Adopted June 5, 2018, effective August 1, 2018
Amended effective January 6, 2026
Contact
Trial Court Law Libraries
Online
Library locations and phone numbers
Chat with a law librarian online
Email a reference librarian:
Email Trial Court Law Libraries at lawlibraries@jud.state.ma.us
Related
Name Changes
Probate & Family Court Rules and Standing Orders
Help Us Improve Mass.gov with your feedback
Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
Yes
No
If you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know.
How can we improve the page? *
Please do not include personal or contact information.
You will not get a response
The feedback will only be used for improving the website. If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries . Please limit your input to 500 characters.
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries .
500 /500
500 characters remaining
Please let us know how we can improve this page.
Please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. You will NOT get a response .
If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries .
Thank you for your website feedback! We will use this information to improve this page.
If you need assistance, please contact the Trial Court Law Libraries .
If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.
Feedback